insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75000,520,'"Folk Tales from Tibet" by Capt. W. F. O''Connor is a collection of traditional stories drawn from Tibetan folklore, published in the early 20th century. This anthology features enchanting narratives that reflect the rich cultural heritage of Tibet, delicately translated and compiled during O''Connor''s time spent in the region. The tales often include themes of cunning and morality, showcasing various animal characters such as hares, tigers, and foxes, which represent traits common to human nature.  At the start of the collection, the reader is introduced to a whimsical story titled "How the Hare Got His Lip Split." This story recounts how a clever hare outsmarts a hungry tiger, leading him into various traps that ultimately result in the tiger’s demise. The hare’s knack for trickery serves as a humorous exploration of wit triumphing over brute strength, establishing a light yet moralistic tone characteristic of folktales. The narrative emphasizes the dynamics between predator and prey, revealing the cleverness of the hare as he orchestrates the downfall of the tiger while amusing himself along the way. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75000,500,'Reading ease score: 69.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75000,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75000,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75001,520,'"The History of the 9th (Scottish) Division, 1914-1919" by M.C. John Ewing is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work chronicles the experiences of the 9th (Scottish) Division during World War I, detailing their formation, battles, and overall contributions to the war effort. With a focus on military operations, the book aims to serve as a testament to the bravery, strategies, and challenges faced by the soldiers of this division throughout their service.  At the start of the narrative, a transcriber’s note establishes the structure for the presentation of the book, including conventions for notation and formatting within the text. The introduction by Field-Marshal Lord Plumer emphasizes the significance of the 9th Division’s actions during the war and praises their fighting spirit and effectiveness in various operations. The opening chapters highlight the context leading up to the war, the formation of the division under Lord Kitchener, and initial training experiences in preparation for combat. The text places considerable emphasis on the transition from civilian life to military service, preparing the soldiers for the rigors of trench warfare, while also recognizing the high morale and eagerness of the men to prove themselves on the battlefield. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75001,500,'Reading ease score: 66.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75001,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75001,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75002,520,'"The Golden Spider" by Francis Lynde is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around three college friends—Dick Maxwell, Larry Donovan, and Charles Purdick—who embark on a summer prospecting trip with the hopes of discovering rare metals in the Hophra Mountains. As they prepare for their adventure, they learn about the legend of a lost gold mine called "The Golden Spider," adding an intriguing element of mystery to their expedition.  At the start of the tale, the three friends anxiously wait in a bank office for Dick''s uncle, who is going to send them on their prospecting journey. They discuss their plans and the excitement of being in the great outdoors, fully aware that time is against them as they wait. Once they finally set off, the boys quickly face unexpected challenges, including brushes with thieves interested in the legendary mine, awkward encounters with strangers, and the harsh realities of wilderness survival. As they venture further into the mountains, they must learn to navigate danger, both from the elements and from others who might hinder their quest for gold. The opening sets the stage for an adventure filled with suspense, camaraderie, and a search for fortune. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75002,500,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75002,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75002,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75003,520,'"Le crime du vieux Blas" by Catulle Mendès is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around the lives of a Basque family, focusing on the intricate relationship between the elderly Blas, his grandson known as the little Blas, and other family members, including Cadije, their strong-willed matriarch. The narrative is steeped in themes of love, sacrifice, and the harsh realities of rural life.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to the characters in a warm, rustic farm setting. The aging Blas, now 71, navigates his days with a mixture of nostalgia and responsibility, helping to care for his six-year-old grandson, whose lively spirit brings both joy and mischief. The familial dynamic is further highlighted by Cadije''s authoritative presence, as she manages the household and keeps a watchful eye over both her husband and her son Antonin, preparing them for the day''s work. Tension builds as Blas yearns for the companionship of the little Blas, leading to an outing that will test the boundaries of duty and familial love, culminating in a profound and tragic event that shapes the course of their lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75003,500,'Reading ease score: 75.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75003,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75004,520,'"La opinión ajena: (novela)" by Eduardo Zamacois is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story is centered on Don Higinio Perea, a middle-aged man who leads a mundane and complacent life in the village of Serranillas. As he grapples with the discovery of winning the lottery, the narrative hints at the internal and external changes that this unexpected fortune might bring to his otherwise predictable existence.  The opening of the novel presents an intimate glimpse into Don Higinio''s life, showcasing his routine and physical appearance as he wakes up late one morning. Described as a rotund character with a sense of self-awareness about his appearance, he reflects on his mundane life and the condition of his body, evoking a romantic yet melancholic aura about his unrealized dreams. This tranquility is abruptly interrupted by the joyous news of his lottery win, triggering excitement and confusion among his family. The scene is filled with lively interactions between Don Higinio and his family members, suggesting that the sudden wealth will herald new adventures and complexities in his life, as well as an exploration of his desires and aspirations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75004,500,'Reading ease score: 52.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75004,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75005,520,'"Marion des neiges : roman" by Jean Martet is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a group of travelers on a train journey through a desolate, snow-covered landscape, focusing primarily on the relationship between the narrator and a young woman named Marion. As they navigate their surroundings and the challenges they encounter, the novel hints at themes of adventure, survival, and the struggle against a harsh, unforgiving nature.  The beginning of the novel introduces the narrator as he recounts his train journey to Aklansas, where he meets a variety of characters, including rugged men and two women: an older, weary dance hall performer and the enigmatic Marion, whose youthful beauty hides a troubled past. As the journey unfolds, the harshness of the environment becomes evident, with freezing temperatures and treacherous snowstorms creating tension and a sense of foreboding. The narrator feels a connection with Marion, recognizing their shared longing to escape their pasts, which sets the stage for further interactions and developments in their lives as they reach Aklansas. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75005,500,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75005,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75006,520,'"Fair Play" by Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte Southworth is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story will likely explore themes surrounding women''s roles and rights, societal expectations, and personal struggle through the lives of its main characters, particularly Britomarte Conyers, who is portrayed as a strong advocate for women’s independence.  The opening of the novel introduces the Four Belles of Bellemont, four young women who are best friends at Bellemont College during their commencement. Britomarte emerges as a passionate figure, dismissing traditional concepts of marriage that reduce women to subservient roles. Her strong views create contrasting dynamics with her friends, who have varying perspectives on love and societal norms. Through discussions among these characters, the groundwork is laid for themes of women’s rights, individuality, and the conflicts between personal desire and societal duty. The opening sets the stage for Britomarte''s journey of self-assertion amidst the limitations imposed upon women in her era. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75006,500,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75006,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75006,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75007,520,'"Vollständiges Orthographisches Wörterbuch der deutschen Sprache" by Konrad Duden is a comprehensive dictionary of German orthography written in the late 19th century. This work serves as an essential reference for proper spelling and includes etymological information, brief explanations of terms, and German translations of foreign words. The purpose of this dictionary is to standardize spelling and to aid readers and writers in navigating the complexities of the German language.  The opening portion introduces the third edition of Duden''s dictionary, detailing the changes and enhancements made since the previous version. Duden explains that this edition includes about 1,000 new entries and features concise explanations of many terms, particularly foreign and loanwords. The text discusses the methodology behind the selection of words and rules for their spelling, indicating a dedication to accuracy and scholarly rigor. Additionally, Duden acknowledges contributions from various scholars that helped in the expansion and refinement of this reference book aimed at clarifying and simplifying the rules of German orthography. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75007,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duden https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duden',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75007,500,'Reading ease score: 78.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75007,436);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75007,456);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75008,520,'"Aus Mitleid: die gekaufte Stimme, des Kaisers Fünf usw. Neue Novellen und…" by Alexander Baron von Roberts is a collection of novellas likely written in the late 19th century. The work provides insights into the struggles of its characters within contemporary society, focusing on themes of love, sacrifice, and social pressures. The story begins with two central characters, Magnus Joël and Emmy, whose tender relationship becomes complicated by social expectations and personal crises.  The opening of the novella sets a poignant tone, immersing readers in a moment of intimacy between Magnus and Emmy as they enjoy their time together, only for the scene to shift dramatically when Emmy experiences a sudden fainting spell. This event triggers a cascade of actions as Magnus, deeply concerned for her well-being, attempts to care for her, leading to the involvement of a doctor and the unfolding of their precarious situation. Through this introduction, Roberts effectively captures the characters'' emotional depth and the societal constraints that loom over them, setting the stage for the thematic exploration of compassion and duty that permeates the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75008,500,'Reading ease score: 82.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75008,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75008,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75009,520,'"The Field of Amber Gold" by William Bigelow Neal is a dramatic novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the struggle of human resilience against the harsh forces of nature and personal challenges on the American prairie. It captures the dynamic of pioneer life, particularly highlighting the themes of survival, hope, and the indomitable spirit of a couple facing daunting circumstances.  The narrative primarily follows John Grahame, a determined farmer battling extreme weather conditions and personal debt as he attempts to cultivate his land. His partner, Jane, embodies the strength and unwavering belief needed to persevere through crises. When Grahame rescues a mysterious man known as Kinear, who bears the scars of his past, the story intricately weaves their encounters, ultimately revealing the transformative power of compassion. As they face blizzards, floods, and the pressures of an unforgiving economy, the characters’ lives intertwine in a tale that celebrates hardship, love, and the relentless pursuit of success against overwhelming odds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75009,500,'Reading ease score: 76.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75009,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75009,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75010,520,'"Second Sight Secrets and Mechanical Magic" by Dr. Herman Pinetti is a practical guide to the art of mechanical magic and illusions, written in the early 20th century. The book serves as a manual for aspiring magicians and those intrigued by stage performances, detailing the secrets behind various tricks that create the illusion of spiritualism and mind-reading. The author aims to debunk the notion that these performances rely on the paranormal, showing instead that they are achieved through clever mechanics and psychological techniques.  The content of the book is structured around different types of magical tricks, from cabinet illusions to table lifting, and features detailed explanations of how they are executed. Dr. Pinetti breaks down the mechanics behind popular effects such as "Second Sight," where one participant, often blindfolded, accurately guesses information about items held by audience members. He explains various methods involving props, theatrical setup, and psychological manipulation that professional performers use to create a sense of wonder. Throughout the text, Pinetti combines historical anecdotes with hands-on instructions, making the book both educational and entertaining for those interested in the art of illusion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75010,500,'Reading ease score: 72.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75010,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75010,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75011,520,'"All Quiet on the Western Front" by Erich Maria Remarque is a novel written in the late 1920s. The book explores the harrowing experiences of soldiers during World War I, focusing on the psychological and physical toll of war on a generation of young men. The main character, Paul Bäumer, and his comrades navigate the brutal realities of trench warfare, dealing with loss, survival, and the disillusionment of their once-cherished ideals of glory.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Paul and his friends as they find a rare moment of rest behind the front lines. They relish a bountiful meal and the camaraderie among fellow soldiers, a welcome respite amid the horrors of war. However, even in this moment of peace, reminders of the war''s brutality linger, such as the heavy losses they suffered during their last offensive. As Paul reflects on their experiences, the bond between the soldiers becomes evident, illustrating their shared struggles and the deep impact of war on their identities. Through their interactions, the opening sets the tone for a poignant exploration of the devastating effects of conflict, shaping a narrative that critiques the romanticized notions of warfare they were taught to believe in. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75011,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All_Quiet_on_the_Western_Front',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75011,500,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75011,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75011,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75012,520,'"The Mystery of Cabin Island" by Franklin W. Dixon is a fictional mystery novel that likely dates from the mid-20th century, part of the popular Hardy Boys series. The story follows teenage brothers Frank and Joe Hardy, known for their detective work as they embark on a winter camping trip to the seemingly desolate Cabin Island, only to find themselves entangled in a series of mysterious events, including encounters with suspicious characters and unexplained phenomena.  At the start of the narrative, the Hardy boys, along with their friend Chet Morton, are enjoying a thrilling ice-boating adventure on Barmet Bay. They soon decide to explore Cabin Island, intrigued by its historical log cabin and foreboding cliffs. However, their visit takes a sudden turn when they encounter a hostile man named Elroy Jefferson, who warns them to leave. Later, the boys uncover that Jefferson has a deeper connection to the island than they initially thought, and a strange note summoning them for a discussion raises their curiosity. The introduction sets the stage for a winter adventure filled with exploration, mysteries, and the struggle to uncover the secrets that abound on Cabin Island. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75012,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mystery_of_Cabin_Island',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75012,500,'Reading ease score: 85.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75012,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75012,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75013,520,'"Jim" by A. A. Strachan is a narrative recounting the heartfelt adventures of a former officer of the Canadian Mounted Police and his loyal dog, Jim. Written in the early 20th century, the book is essentially an autobiographical tale that reflects on themes of companionship and survival in the wilderness. It draws upon the author''s experiences and observations during his time homesteading in Canada.  The story highlights the strong bond between the narrator and his dog, Jim, who exhibits unwavering loyalty and intelligence. After the narrator incurs a severe injury while building a log cabin, he becomes trapped and realizes that he is alone in a remote area. In a moment of desperation, he trains Jim to deliver an urgent message for help, showcasing the dog''s remarkable abilities. As the tale unfolds, readers witness Jim’s steadfast dedication to his master, leading to an emotional climax where the narrator realizes the profound importance of their companionship. Ultimately, the story is a touching tribute to the bond between humans and dogs, illustrating how love and loyalty can transcend the challenges of solitude and adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75013,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75013,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75013,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75014,520,'"Miehetön kylä" by Kálmán Mikszáth is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative centers on the small village of Szelistye, which is overwhelmingly populated by women due to the loss of men to warfare, leaving the community in a dire need for male population. The novel explores themes of power dynamics, gender roles, and the societal implications of war, while introducing notable characters such as the nobleman Mikael Szilágyi and the women of Szelistye who seek aid from the ruling class.  The opening of "Miehetön kylä" unfolds with a detailed description of Szelistye’s history and current plight in the backdrop of a war-torn society. As the story progresses, noble figures like Szilágyi receive a comical and urgent delegation from the village women, who demand men to restore their community. The narrative humorously depicts the absurdity of their situation, contrasting the gallantry of the noble courts with the stark reality of the women’s needs. This setup establishes a vivid tableau where historical figures navigate the complexities of duty, gender, and survival, promising readers an engaging mix of drama and comedy in a richly layered historical context. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75014,500,'Reading ease score: 42.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75014,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75014,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75015,520,'"Flood Waters" by Leland S. Jamieson is a thrilling adventure story written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around the dire consequences of a catastrophic flood affecting the Mississippi River area, highlighting the struggles of individuals caught in the devastation and the heroic efforts of a pilot working to save those affected.   The story follows Nick Wentworth, the chief pilot of the U.S. Air Patrol, who is assigned to deliver urgent food and medical supplies to flood victims. When a train accident complicates his mission, he faces challenging conditions while attempting to rescue injured crew members and a distraught daughter. Battling inclement weather and the limitations of his aircraft, Nick demonstrates extraordinary bravery and resourcefulness. The tale progresses with gripping suspense as he navigates the airborne obstacles toward delivering the injured to safety, ultimately bringing forth themes of courage, sacrifice, and humanity amidst disaster. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75015,500,'Reading ease score: 77.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75015,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75015,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75016,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 76, No. 466, August, 1854" by Various is a historical publication that originated in the mid-19th century. This edition represents a collection of essays and articles highlighting various topics, which include significant historical events such as the Greek Revolution and the insurrection in Spain, as well as discussions relating to ethnology and student life in Scotland.   The beginning of this volume introduces a critical review of the Greek Revolution, particularly focusing on a newly published history by Mr. Tricoupi and its contrasts with Sir A. Alison''s work. The text delves into the roles of Russia and the Turks during the Greek War of Independence while also reflecting on the characteristics and actions of the Greek people during this turbulent period. Additionally, it aims to provide a thoughtful critique of the historical narratives surrounding these events and their significance in the context of European politics at the time, particularly in relation to contemporary conflicts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75016,500,'Reading ease score: 44.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75016,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75016,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75017,520,'"Look on the Sunny Side: And Other Sketches" by Ruth Lamb is a collection of inspirational sketches written in the early 20th century. The book captures various life lessons, moral reflections, and uplifting stories, often centered around themes of perseverance, faith, and the importance of character. The sketches provide insight into the lives of ordinary people who face adversities yet choose to maintain a positive outlook.  Throughout the collection, the author portrays different characters who exemplify resilience and kindness in the face of hardship. For instance, Mrs. Duncan, a hardworking mother, relies on her faith to navigate her family''s struggles while caring for her husband and children. The sketches explore themes of love, sacrifice, and the transformative power of faith, offering readers relatable narratives that encourage a positive perspective on life. Overall, the collection urges readers to look beyond their troubles and find hope and strength in their circumstances, nurturing the idea that a sunny outlook can lead to personal growth and fulfillment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75017,500,'Reading ease score: 74.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75017,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75017,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75018,520,'"The Curse of Drink" by W. C. Tuttle is a humorous novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the fictional cowtown of San Pablo, where the townsfolk aim to put on a theatrical production for a charitable cause. The narrative blends elements of comedy and drama, with a clear focus on the interactions and shenanigans of its quirky characters as they prepare for a play that revolves around a weighty topic: the detrimental effects of alcohol.  The plot centers around Hank Boll-Weevil Potts, owner of the local saloon, and his involvement in a community theater project led by the dramatic teacher Eveline Annabel Wimple. As the characters scramble to put on a successful show titled "The Curse of Drink," chaos ensues with various romantic entanglements and mishaps, including a raucous showdown between two rival towns. Amidst the comedic turmoil, they find themselves drastically underprepared, with even the lead actor becoming incapacitated. Tuttle expertly weaves humor into themes of community, charity, and the folly of human nature, culminating in a riotous performance that leaves its mark on the townspeople and, ultimately, on the audience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75018,500,'Reading ease score: 92.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75018,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75018,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75019,520,'"Code" by Frank Richardson Pierce is a maritime story published in the late 1920s. This piece of fiction explores themes related to the code of ethics among sailors, focusing on the tension between legality and moral duty. The narrative revolves around the harrowing experiences of Captain McNulty and his crew aboard the rum-running ship, the "Crayton", as they navigate a storm-laden Pacific coastline while trying to evade the Coast Guard.  The plot thickens when McNulty and his crew decide to aid a distressed sailor from another vessel caught in the storm while balancing the risk of crossing the legal twelve-mile limit. Pritt, the cargo owner, pushes for a cautious approach, fearing repercussions if they are caught by the Coast Guard. However, McNulty chooses to adhere to the sailor''s code of saving lives, prioritizing human compassion over legal concerns. This decision leads them into further peril as they seek shelter while facing the brunt of the storm, underscoring a tale of duty, camaraderie, and the moral dilemmas faced at sea. The story culminates with the coast guard''s involvement, leaving the reader to ponder the true cost of unyielding adherence to the code of the sea amidst the harrowing backdrop of maritime challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75019,500,'Reading ease score: 85.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75019,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75019,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75020,520,'"Anæsthetics antient and modern: An historical sketch of anæsthesia" by Burroughs Wellcome & Co. is a scientific publication written during the late 19th century. The book provides an extensive historical account of the development and use of anesthetics throughout the ages, from ancient civilizations to modern practices. It likely delves into various methods and substances used for inducing insensibility and pain relief during surgical procedures, illustrating the evolution of anesthesia as a vital aspect of medicine.  This historical sketch traces the use of anesthetics from early practices in ancient Egypt and Greece, where substances like Indian hemp and mandragora were employed, to the significant breakthroughs of the 19th century, including the discovery of nitrous oxide, ether, and chloroform. The text discusses key figures and events that shaped the field of anesthesia, such as Horace Wells’ introduction of nitrous oxide for dental surgery and W.T.G. Morton’s demonstration of ether. The book also covers the transition from ancient methods, often steeped in superstition and rudimentary comprehension, to a more scientific approach driven by experimentation and chemistry, cementing anesthesia''s role in modern medicine. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75020,500,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75020,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75020,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75021,520,'"The Argonauts of California: being the reminiscences of scenes and incidents that occurred in California in early mining days" by C. W. Haskins is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book vividly chronicles the experiences and adventures of the early gold seekers, known as the Argonauts, who ventured westward in search of fortune during the California Gold Rush era. Haskins shares a wealth of anecdotes and perspectives that highlight not only the gold rush but also the vibrant characters and events that shaped the era.  At the start of the narrative, the characters Jo and Bill converse about the recent discovery of gold in California, sparking a wave of excitement and a mass exodus of eager miners heading to seek their fortunes. Haskins recalls his own journey from New Bedford, Massachusetts, illustrating the fervor and optimism among the gold seekers as they prepared to sail around Cape Horn to California. Their conversations reveal a mix of skepticism and enthusiasm surrounding the gold rush, setting the stage for the ensuing adventures. As they embark on their journey, the opening passage establishes not just the quest for wealth but also the camaraderie and trials that the Argonauts would face in their pursuit of the American Dream. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75021,500,'Reading ease score: 56.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75021,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75021,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75022,520,'"Tine" by Herman Bang is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around the titular character, Tine, as she navigates her relationships and experiences in a seemingly intimate yet tumultuous setting, filled with themes of loss, memory, and the longing for a cherished past.  At the start of "Tine," we are introduced to a poignant and emotional backdrop where the protagonist, Tine, is filled with sorrow as she bids goodbye to someone significant as they depart. The scene is heavy with the weight of memories and the emptiness left behind as Tine returns home to a deserted environment once full of life. Interactions with family members and servants reveal a deep sense of loss and longing, particularly for a younger sibling named Herluf, who is now absent. The opening portion illustrates Tine''s world — one that is marked by the echoes of past happiness and the challenges of facing a future filled with uncertainty and grief, setting the stage for her journey throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75022,500,'https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tine_(roman)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75022,500,'Reading ease score: 51.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75022,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75022,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75023,520,'"Tom Jones: De lotgevallen van een vondeling" by Henry Fielding is a novel written in the early 18th century. The story begins with the birth of the protagonist, Tom Jones, a foundling, hinting at themes of destiny, societal judgment, and the complexities of human nature. The novel is set in England and paints a vivid picture of the social landscape through various characters and their interactions.  At the start of "Tom Jones," the narrator introduces the reader to Mr. Allworthy, a benevolent landowner who discovers a foundling, Tom Jones, in his bed. As Allworthy decides to take care of the child, initial insights into the characters around him are provided, including his sister, Miss Brigitta, who embodies moral virtue. The opening chapters establish an intricate social backdrop where the contrast between virtue and vice is explored through the ensuing dialogue and the actions of the characters, particularly focusing on issues surrounding legitimacy and societal perception. Fielding intricately weaves humor and satire throughout the narrative as he sets the scene for a journey filled with moral dilemmas and the pursuit of goodness amidst human folly. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75023,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_History_of_Tom_Jones,_a_Foundling',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75023,500,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75023,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75023,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75024,520,'"Our Presidents and how we make them" by Alexander K. McClure is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book provides a detailed examination of the presidential elections in the United States, exploring the historical contexts, contests, and political dynamics that shaped each election. It aims to present not only the outcomes of these elections but also the character and selection process of America''s leaders.  The opening of the work sets the stage for an in-depth analysis of presidential elections, beginning with George Washington''s presidency and outlining how these contests have been pivotal in the political evolution of the nation. McClure emphasizes the unique role the presidency holds within American politics, highlighting the struggles between parties and candidates through various election cycles. He draws from his extensive personal experiences in U.S. politics, promising insights into both well-known and lesser-documented aspects of these elections, thus preparing readers for a substantive exploration of how the highest office in the land has been contested and filled throughout American history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75024,500,'Reading ease score: 39.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75024,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75024,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75025,520,'"Les chasseurs de loups" by James Oliver Curwood is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set against the backdrop of the vast Canadian wilderness, it follows young hunters Wabi and Roderick, as they navigate both the thrilling and dangerous aspects of life in the Great White North while grappling with encounters with wolves and conflict with local Indigenous people.   The opening of the story paints a vivid picture of a biting winter night in the Canadian wilderness, where an elk is fatally wounded and pursued by a pack of wolves. As the hush of the snow-covered landscape is broken by desperate animal cries, two young hunters, Wabi (of Indigenous descent) and Roderick (a white boy), find themselves in a life-threatening situation after being attacked by rogue Native Americans. Roderick, injured and exhausted, is carried by Wabi to safety where they strategize their next moves, evoking a sense of camaraderie and the need for survival against both the natural wildlife and human threats. The narrative sets the stage for their daring ventures into the wild and the complex relationships between cultural identities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75025,500,'Reading ease score: 73.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75025,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75025,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75026,520,'"The Wounded Eros" by Charles Gibson is a collection of sonnets written in the early 20th century. The poems depict the intense emotional landscape of unrequited love and the internal struggles of a heart yearning for connection and acceptance. The speaker, likely a persona for Gibson himself, reflects on the beauty and agony inherent in romantic pursuits, illustrating the timeless themes of desire, longing, and heartbreak.  At the start of the collection, the speaker wrestles with the pain of unreturned affection while celebrating the beauty of the beloved. He expresses his emotional turmoil through vivid imagery and metaphors, capturing both the joy and melancholy of love. As he navigates his feelings, he reveals a deep vulnerability, oscillating between hope and despair, showcasing his desire for a connection that remains just out of reach. Each sonnet serves as a heartfelt exploration of love''s complexities, suggesting that the journey of longing is as profound and intricate as love itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75026,500,'Reading ease score: 71.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75026,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75026,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75027,520,'"La Cuisine Creole" is a collection of culinary recipes published in the late 19th century. This comprehensive cookbook showcases the unique culinary traditions of New Orleans, blending influences from American, French, Spanish, Italian, West Indian, and Mexican cuisines. It serves as both a guide and a celebration of Creole cooking, featuring a variety of well-tested recipes from renowned chefs and local housewives, providing readers an opportunity to explore the rich flavors and practices distinctive to the region.  The opening portion of "La Cuisine Creole" introduces readers to the essence of Creole cookery, emphasizing the importance of thoughtful preparation and knowledge in creating flavorful dishes. It begins with an introduction that outlines the cosmopolitan nature of New Orleans cuisine, followed by a detailed focus on making soup, showcasing various recipes that incorporate different vegetables and meats. The text highlights the careful process involved in cooking and offers practical advice for both novice and experienced cooks, aiming to demystify the art of Creole cooking and encourage domestic harmony through well-prepared meals. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75027,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75027,431);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75027,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75028,520,'"All in the Dark" by Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around William Maubray, an orphan who is dependent on his aunt, Miss Dinah Perfect, living at the rather dull Gilroyd Hall during his school holidays. William is accompanied by his cousin, Violet Darkwell, who is a lively and imaginative girl, bringing a touch of vibrancy to his otherwise monotonous life. As the narrative unfolds, themes of love, loss, and the supernatural begin to intertwine with the everyday lives of the characters, hinting at deeper mysteries to be explored.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the idyllic yet stagnant setting of Gilroyd Hall and its inhabitants. William, who enjoys a close yet somewhat complicated relationship with his aunt, is depicted as a thoughtful young man, increasingly aware of the changing dynamics around him, particularly his feelings for Violet. The opening chapters reveal a mix of whimsical interactions, including playful banter and hints of magic and spiritualism through Aunt Dinah’s fascination with séance practices. As the tone shifts from lightheartedness to a growing sense of unease, the groundwork is laid for a compelling exploration of the supernatural alongside the trials of young love and the inevitable approach of change. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75028,500,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75028,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75028,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75029,520,'"Mon cousin Guy" by Henri Ardel is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story likely revolves around Guy de Pazanne, a charming and somewhat carefree young man who is on a journey to Douarnenez, where he interacts with family members and encounters the vibrant and lively Arlette Morgane. The novel appears to delve into themes of family connections, societal expectations, and the picturesque beauty of Brittany, all interwoven with a sense of humor and romance.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Guy, who is preparing for his trip to Douarnenez at the urging of his sister and nieces. As he embarks on his journey, Guy’s personality shines through his light-hearted banter with them as well as his charmingly skeptical view on the family he is to meet. Upon arrival, he quickly finds himself captivated by the natural landscape and the local culture, highlighting the enchanting atmosphere of Brittany. The scene shifts to nighttime as Guy writes a letter, reflecting on a chance encounter with a spirited young girl named Arlette, who possesses an insatiable curiosity and a whimsical nature. Their initial meeting sets the stage for the evolving dynamics of family and relationships in the quaint coastal town. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75029,500,'Reading ease score: 80.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75029,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75030,520,'"Mr. Petre" by Hilaire Belloc is a novel associated with early 20th century literature, published in the 1920s. The story follows the central character, Mr. Petre, who is depicted as a rather stout middle-aged man returning to England after a two-year absence in America. Upon his arrival, he experiences a peculiar sense of detachment and loss of memory, leading him to grapple with his identity and past as he tries to piece together the fragments of his life.  The opening of the novel establishes a sense of mystery and disorientation. Mr. Petre steps off a ship into the English countryside, filled with anticipation for his return but simultaneously burdened by blank spots in his memory. As he travels to London, he becomes increasingly aware that he cannot recall essential details about his life. This growing sense of confusion culminates when he learns his name is tied to important wealth and social status, which places him at the center of intrigue among various characters in London''s elite circles. The narrative builds on this tension as Mr. Petre finds himself unwittingly involved in an unfolding drama related to his financial dealings, raising questions about his past and identity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75030,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75030,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75031,520,'"Corrie" by Ruth Lynn is a children''s story written during the late 19th century. The book explores themes of kindness, love, and faith through the lives of two siblings, Robin and his ailing sister, Corrie. Set against the backdrop of a modest household, the story reveals the struggles they face due to poverty and Corrie''s health issues, as well as their belief in the goodness of others and the magic of Christmas.  The opening of "Corrie" introduces readers to the warm relationship between siblings Robin and Corrie as they prepare for Christmas. Robin comforts Corrie, who is unable to walk and frail, by sharing the story of Jesus'' birth, instilling hope and joy in her heart. Despite their family''s struggles, Robin is determined to give Corrie a happy Christmas, demonstrating selflessness and love. The narrative sets a poignant scene of their humble circumstances while highlighting their unwavering faith and the kindness of others in the community, making the opening both tender and uplifting. This summary showcases the heartwarming core of the story, where compassion triumphs over adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75031,500,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75031,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75031,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75032,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 76, No. 468, October, 1854" by Various is a literary periodical published in the mid-19th century. It is a compilation of essays, articles, and discussions that cover a diverse range of subjects, such as astronomy, philosophy, politics, and the sciences. Through its contents, the magazine seeks to engage readers from both intellectual and cultural perspectives, reflecting the spirited debates and curiosity of its time.  The opening portion of this edition introduces a discussion titled "Speculators Among the Stars." At the start, it contemplates the existence of intelligent life on other celestial bodies, referencing various thinkers like Dr. Whewell and Sir David Brewster, who present opposing views on this topic. The dialogue oscillates between belief in extraterrestrial life and the argument for humanity''s unique place in creation, touching on morality, spirituality, and the scientific principles that might support or contradict these beliefs. It presents the challenges of reconciling religious faith with advancements in astronomical science and raises philosophical inquiries regarding the purpose of such vast, seemingly uninhabited regions of the universe. The debate engulfs cosmology and geology while appealing to reasoned speculation about the existence of life beyond Earth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75032,500,'Reading ease score: 49.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75032,436);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75032,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75033,520,'"The Old and the New Peru: A Story of the Ancient Inheritance and the Modern Growth and Enterprise of a Great Nation" by Marie Robinson Wright is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores Peru''s rich history, from its early civilizations and the iconic Inca Empire to the transformations that shaped modern Peru. The narrative focuses on the significant cultural, political, and social developments that define the nation, providing insight into both its ancient legacy and contemporary progress.  At the start of the book, the author introduces Peru as a nation steeped in history, known for its archaeological treasures and influential pre-Columbian cultures. The opening portion details the archaeological significance of ancient sites like Pachacámac and discusses the various theories regarding the origins of Peruvian civilization. It emphasizes the role of archaeological exploration in uncovering the country’s past and sets the stage for a deeper investigation into both the remarkable ancient cultures and the nation’s evolution into a modern republic. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75033,500,'Reading ease score: 47.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75033,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75033,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75034,520,'"Bob, the Photographer: or, A Hero in Spite of Himself" by Edward Stratemeyer is a coming-of-age novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young boy named Bob Alden, who faces adversity while working for a harsh farmer named Joel Carrow and dreams of becoming a photographer. After standing up to his employer and earning his freedom, Bob begins a journey filled with adventures that test his character and courage, ultimately positioning him as a hero in unexpected situations.  The opening of the tale introduces Bob as he grapples with the tyrannical control of Joel Carrow, showcasing a pivotal confrontation where he dares to stand up for himself. Just as Bob is about to face further abuse, Frank Landes, an amateur photographer, intervenes, setting off a chain of events that leads Bob to leave Carrow’s oppressive farm. This decision signifies the start of an adventure that not only promises new opportunities but also leads Bob into perilous encounters, including a dramatic incident where he saves a girl from falling off a cliff. The beginning strongly establishes Bob''s resolve and the themes of resilience, friendship, and the pursuit of one''s dreams through the lens of his passion for photography. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75034,500,'Reading ease score: 93.8 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75034,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75034,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75035,520,'"Az élet kapuja: Elbeszélés" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set against a backdrop of early post-World War I Europe, the narrative explores themes of societal change and identity. The opening introduces a bustling yet grim environment filled with contrasting imagery of decay and grandeur as characters navigate the intricacies of life in a city that symbolizes both hope and despair.  The beginning introduces readers to a vivid and chaotic cityscape, rich with historical elements and a sense of impending change, as German Cardinal Strigonio prepares for a grand entrance. Observers, including the noble Fiametta and figures of power like the banker Chigi, engage in discussions reflecting on societal perceptions of wealth, power, and cultural identity amidst the backdrop of the Hungarian patriarch Bakócz’s ambitions. This opening sets the stage for a complex interplay of characters and themes, such as ambition, identity, and the quest for a better future, promising an intriguing exploration of life’s crossroads. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75035,500,'Reading ease score: 66.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75035,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75035,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75036,520,'"The Ways of the Hour" by James Fenimore Cooper is a novel written in the late 19th century. It addresses critical social issues of the time, particularly the administration of criminal justice and the failings of the jury system in a democratic society. The narrative introduces us to Mr. Thomas Dunscomb, a lawyer who serves as one of the main characters, alongside his nephew and niece, Jack and Sarah Wilmeter, as they navigate the complexities of social justice and morality in a rapidly changing America.  At the start of the novel, the reader is introduced to the backdrop of Manhattan''s evolving architecture and the characters'' lives, particularly focusing on a significant legal case involving a mysterious young woman named Mary Monson, who is suspected of involvement in a tragic fire that claimed the lives of an elderly couple. The opening portion establishes a tense atmosphere of moral reflection and inquiry as Mr. Dunscomb discusses legal principles with his family while being drawn into Mary’s predicament. The chapter explores themes of justice, societal prejudice, and individual morality, laying the groundwork for the unfolding drama surrounding Mary’s trial and the implications of the legal system on the lives of ordinary citizens. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75036,500,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75036,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75036,457);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75037,520,'"Escenas de la vida pagesa" by Joaquim Riera i Bertran is a novel written in the late 19th century. The book depicts the lives of rural Catalan villagers, focusing on their customs, celebrations, and the intricate relationships that bind the community. The main character in the opening portion is Uncle Toni, a jovial village mayor, who prepares for the festivities of Roser, surrounded by townsfolk from various socioeconomic backgrounds.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to a lively celebration in the village, where Uncle Toni enthusiastically addresses the attendees to emphasize the importance of dance and merriment during the Roser festival. As the villagers engage in discussions about musical bands and revelry, the atmosphere is filled with excitement. The narrative quickly shifts to a series of social dynamics, highlighting interactions between various characters, including the young women vying for attention and the comical pursuits of the local authorities. Amidst the preparations, humor and tension build with the arrival of an unexpected complication involving a distressed girl fleeing from an undesirable suitor, setting the stage for unfolding drama amidst the festive backdrop. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75037,500,'Reading ease score: 57.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75037,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75037,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75038,520,'"Choice Sayings" by Robert C. Chapman is a collection of meditative notes on biblical expositions likely written in the late 19th century. This work delves into scriptural themes that cover various aspects of Christian faith, including the nature of the Gospel, the significance of faith, and the importance of confession and humility. Each section appears to provide insights intended to deepen the reader’s understanding of scripture and enhance their spiritual journey.  The opening portion of "Choice Sayings" introduces foundational concepts in Christian theology, emphasizing the transformative power of the Gospel and the believer''s relationship with God. Chapman discusses the necessity of recognizing one''s sinfulness and the grace offered through Christ''s blood, framing repentance and faith as essential components for communion with God. He contrasts human attempts at righteousness with the grace of God, highlighting the need for believers to approach God with humility and a contrite heart. Overall, the beginning lays a profound spiritual groundwork, inviting readers to reflect deeply on their faith and walk with God. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75038,500,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75038,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75039,520,'"A New Discovery for Finding the Longitude" by William Hobbs is a scientific publication written in the early 18th century. The book details innovative methods for accurately determining longitude at sea, a pressing issue for navigation during that period. Hobbs introduces a spring movement mechanism as part of his proposed solution, which claims to achieve precise timekeeping essential for calculating longitudinal differences.  In the content of the book, Hobbs outlines the principles for utilizing his timekeeping device to establish one''s geographical position longitudinally. He explains the process for setting the device in motion, recording its indexes, and making necessary calculations based on celestial observations, particularly the sun''s position. Hobbs emphasizes that this method can yield accurate results regardless of environmental influences, provided that specific conditions are met. The text includes detailed instructions for the operation of the device and offers examples to illustrate the methodology, ensuring that navigators can apply it effectively in various maritime conditions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75039,500,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75039,474);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75039,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75040,520,'"The Wonders of the World: A Complete Museum, Descriptive and Pictorial" by John Loraine Abbott is an illustrated descriptive work written in the mid-19th century. The book aims to showcase a variety of natural, scientific, and artistic phenomena from around the globe, presenting this compilation in a way that is both educational and entertaining for families and general readers alike.   At the start of the text, the author reflects on the ancient Seven Wonders of the World and contrasts them with the multitude of awe-inspiring marvels of nature and human achievement known to contemporary society. The preface expresses Abbott''s mission to offer a richly informative volume that sidesteps myths and exaggerated tales while focusing on authenticated accounts from reputable sources. Following this, the book introduces various natural wonders, beginning with explorations of majestic mountains like the Andes, providing both detailed descriptions and historical context, which sets the stage for the ensuing explorations of other remarkable phenomena throughout the work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75040,500,'Reading ease score: 59.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75040,436);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75040,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75041,520,'"His to Fly" by Richard Howells Watkins is a short story published in the late 1920s, where the characters navigate the challenges of early aviation. The narrative revolves around two pilots, Beak Becket and Jerry Tabor, as they grapple with their complicated partnership while flying a biplane. Central to the story is the theme of ambition and the tension between experience and inexperience in pursuit of flight.  The plot unfolds as Jerry and Beak prepare for a flight, highlighting their contentious relationship. Beak, a seasoned pilot, often belittles Jerry, who is eager to prove himself. Tensions rise during their journey, particularly when the realities of aerial navigation become perilous amid fog and dwindling fuel. As the story climaxes with a malfunction and impending disaster, Jerry''s decisive moment comes when he must choose between saving himself by jumping with a parachute or taking control of the plane that he partly owns. In a courageous act of determination, Jerry takes over the cockpit, demonstrating growth and asserting his newfound identity as a pilot, ultimately leading to their precarious landing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75041,500,'Reading ease score: 84.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75041,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75041,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75042,520,'"Kaarina Maununtytär: Torimyymälästä valtaistuimelle" by Bertha Witt is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in 16th-century Sweden and follows a young peasant girl named Kaarina Maununtytär, who struggles to sell her wares at a market while dealing with various societal and personal challenges. The narrative hints at Kaarina''s rise from a humble market seller to a position of influence, suggesting an exploration of themes like love, ambition, and the complexities of court life.  At the start of the novel, the atmosphere is set during a bustling market day in Stockholm, where Kaarina is unsuccessfully trying to sell her goods. Through her interactions with other characters, like the soldier Kustaa Pietarinpoika and the mysterious figure of Yrjänä Pietarinpoika, the stage is set for conflict and intrigue. Kaarina''s struggles, combined with her unexpected encounter with royal connections, hint at a journey that will take her from her modest beginnings to the opulence and peril of the royal court. The opening vividly establishes Kaarina''s plight, her aspirations, and the dark undercurrents of the political landscape surrounding her, drawing readers into a richly woven historical narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75042,500,'Reading ease score: 43.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75042,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75042,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75043,520,'"Princesses de science" by Colette Yver is a fictional narrative written in the early 20th century. The story introduces readers to Dr. Fernand Guéméné, a young physician, and Thérèse Herlinge, a dedicated medical intern, as they navigate their professional ambitions and personal feelings in a male-dominated medical field. Within this backdrop, the narrative explores themes of love, sacrifice, and the struggle for identity as Thérèse seeks to forge her path as a woman in science.  The beginning of "Princesses de science" offers insight into the lives of its central characters. Dr. Guéméné is depicted as he prepares for his day, revealing his admiration for Thérèse and his aspirations for their future. Thérèse, on the other hand, is characterized as strong-willed and focused on her medical studies, intent on balancing her role as both a medical professional and a potential partner to Guéméné. Their initial interactions suggest both a deep connection and a brewing conflict regarding gender roles and societal expectations, setting the stage for a complex examination of love and ambition. The opening lays a foundation for the nuanced exploration of their relationship as they grapple with personal and professional conflicts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75043,500,'https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princesses_de_science',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75043,500,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75043,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75043,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75044,520,'"Nachten en dagen" by Douwe Kalma is a poetic work, likely written in the late 19th century. The text appears to draw on themes of nature, identity, and folklore, reflecting the culture and heritage of the Frisian people. It utilizes evocative language and imagery, suggesting a deep connection to the land and possibly the struggles faced by its inhabitants.  The opening of "Nachten en dagen" immerses the reader in a landscape rich with emotionally charged descriptions and a lyrical quality typical of poetry. It conveys a sense of longing and introspection, exploring the relationship between the Frisian people and their environment, interwoven with references to mythological figures such as the Norse gods. The characters in the opening seem to grapple with concepts of fate and identity in the context of their natural surroundings, setting a tone that combines both reverence and melancholic reflection on the past and present of their existence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75044,500,'Reading ease score: 63.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75044,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75044,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75045,520,'"Wiron satuja" by Pietari Hannikainen is a collection of folktales written in the mid-19th century. The book features a variety of stories that draw on Finnish folklore and myth, often exploring themes of morality, strength, truth, and human behavior. The narratives highlight cultural values and lessons passed down through generations.  The tales contained within the collection illustrate the adventures and trials of various characters. One story features a strong tailor who, through a series of misadventures, inadvertently saves his kingdom while another focuses on the dichotomy between Truth and Lies, illustrating the consequences of deception and honesty. Other narratives like those involving the return of lost vision and the creation of languages elaborate on rich mythological and natural elements, such as the roles of celestial beings and nature itself. Ultimately, these stories weave together moral lessons with imaginative scenarios, reflecting the values and folklore of the time in Finnish culture. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75045,500,'Reading ease score: 40.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75045,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75045,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75046,520,'"Aseistettu rakkaus" by Rafael Sabatini is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds against a backdrop of intrigue and political machinations in Renaissance Italy, particularly focusing on the character Francesco del Falco, known as Aquila, who finds himself embroiled in conspiracies against the Duke of Babbiano.   At the start of the novel, a group of noblemen, including Francesco, gathers in a humble tavern, engaged in a secretive meeting. They discuss the rising threat posed by the Duke, Gian Maria Sforza, who is characterized by his reckless indulgence and negligence towards state affairs. During this meeting, it is revealed that a spy, Masuccio Torri, has been lurking nearby, causing tension and fear of betrayal among the conspirators. Recognizing the urgency of their situation, the nobles contemplate joining forces to overthrow the Duke, with Aquila being a pivotal figure in this plot, leading them into a spiral of adventure and danger. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75046,500,'Reading ease score: 40.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75046,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75046,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75047,520,'"The Amouretta Landscape and Other Stories" by Adeline Adams is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The primary tale introduces us to Maurice Price, a portrait painter who reflects on his artistic journey and seeks to reconnect with the landscapes he once adored but has neglected due to life’s responsibilities. The stories intertwine themes of beauty, the ephemeral nature of youth, and the impact of significant relationships on personal identity.  At the start of the collection, we delve into Maurice''s character as he finds himself in a tranquil New Hampshire setting where he is reminded of his earlier passion for painting landscapes. As he prepares to paint again after a long hiatus, he encounters a discarded portrait of Amouretta McGowan, a poignant reminder of a vibrant model from his past, juxtaposing the beauty of his current surroundings with the memories of those he has lost. Through his internal dialogue and memories, Adams vividly portrays the contrast between youthful aspiration and adult compromise, setting the tone for exploration of artistic expression and nostalgia that permeates the subsequent narratives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75047,500,'Reading ease score: 78.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75047,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75047,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75048,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 93, No. 568, February, 1863" by Various is a periodical publication that was produced in the mid-19th century. This volume contains a collection of essays and articles discussing various themes, including political commentary, cultural reflections, and explorations of contemporary issues in China and Europe. The magazine serves as a rich historical document, showcasing the intellectual currents and societal debates of its time.  At the start of this particular issue, one piece titled "Progress in China" addresses the Taiping rebellion, giving readers insight into the socio-political landscape of 19th-century China. The author outlines the rise of the Taepings and their impact on the imperial government, illustrating how European influences catalyzed unrest among the Chinese populace. The piece details the nature of the rebellion, the motivations of its leaders, and the complex interplay between local disaffection and foreign involvement, setting the stage for a broader discussion on colonialism and reform. Overall, this opening portion offers a thought-provoking entry into the historical narratives that shaped the period''s geopolitical dynamics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75048,500,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75048,454);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75048,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75049,520,'"The Shadow on the Spark" by Edward S. Sears is a murder detective story written in the early 20th century. The narrative unfolds amid suspense, examining the complexities of circumstantial evidence surrounding the seemingly accidental death of a wealthy banker, Jim Craighead. The central theme involves the intricate interplay of human emotions and motives, particularly focusing on the potential for foul play masked by the guise of an unfortunate accident.  The plot begins with Dr. Milton Jarvis returning from a medical conference to the shocking news of his friend Jim Craighead''s death, which was attributed to complications following an amputation. However, Dr. Jarvis, troubled by the circumstances, investigates the matter further, suspecting foul play. As the investigation unfolds, it is revealed that a series of events—including the involvement of a dubious stepfather, a prescription for a narcotic, and the affections of a mysterious girl named Tessie Prettyman—converge to paint a complex picture of betrayal and murder. Through scientific discoveries and clever deduction, Dr. Jarvis leads to an explosive courtroom revelation, unveiling the poison''s true origins and closing in on the culprits, while also revealing the tragic consequences for those involved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75049,500,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75049,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75049,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75050,520,'"Brief Biographies from American History" by Edna Henry Lee Turpin is a historical collection of biographies aimed at fifth and sixth graders, written in the early 20th century. The book presents short narratives about significant figures in American history, intended to provide young readers with a foundational understanding of the nation''s past through the lives of influential individuals.   The opening of the book establishes its educational purpose, emphasizing the importance of biography in teaching history. It discusses the role of biographical stories in childhood education and outlines the format and intentions behind the narratives. The beginning introduces key historical characters, such as Leif the Lucky and Marco Polo, connecting their explorations and contributions to the broader tapestry of American history. Throughout the text, the author focuses on engaging language and vivid storytelling to captivate young readers and spark their interest in the lives of these historical figures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75050,500,'Reading ease score: 68.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75050,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75050,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75051,520,'"Borderland: A Country-Town Chronicle" by Jessie Fothergill is a novel written in the late 19th century. This story is set in a quaint English country town and revolves around the lives of several young boys during their childhood, transitioning into their adult lives fraught with friendship, social dynamics, and familial expectations. The narrative focuses on Michael Langstroth and his interactions with his brother Gilbert, their friend Roger Camm, and the temperamental Otho Askam as well as their relationships with the women in their lives, particularly Magdalen Wynter.  The opening of the novel introduces us to a nostalgic summer of youth where four boys, the sons of gentlemen from varied backgrounds, enjoy carefree adventures in an idyllic garden by the river Tees. As the narrative unfolds, we learn about the distinct personalities of each boy: the noble and proud Michael, the gentle Gilbert, the struggling Roger, and the impulsive Otho. The story later shifts to their adulthood, revealing changing fortunes and the complexity of their relationships, particularly the dynamics surrounding Otho''s return to claim his inheritance at Thorsgarth. Themes of social standing, romantic entanglements, and the contrasting lives of the boys are emphasized, setting the stage for deeper explorations into their evolving identities and societal pressures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75051,500,'Reading ease score: 78.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75051,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75051,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75052,520,'"A New Account of Guinea, and the Slave-Trade" by William Snelgrave is a historical account published in the mid-18th century. The work details the author''s experiences as a trader along the Guinea coast, where he witnessed the horrors of the slave trade and the cultural practices of various African kingdoms, particularly focusing on the Kingdom of Dahomè. Snelgrave''s narrative aims to shed light on the complexities of the region''s interactions with European traders and the devastating impact of the slave trade.  At the start of the narrative, Snelgrave establishes the context of his travels along the Guinea coast, referencing past encounters with the local populace and the geopolitical dynamics that influenced trade. He recounts his observations of indigenous customs, including the shocking practice of human sacrifice, which he derides while also contextualizing within the local belief systems. The reader is introduced to the author''s journey to the camp of the King of Dahomè, where he witnesses both displays of power and brutality, including the sacrifice of captives following military conquests. Snelgrave presents a vivid picture of the cultural clashes and moral dilemmas faced by European traders in a land where their values starkly contrasted with those they encountered. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75052,500,'Reading ease score: 58.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75052,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75052,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75053,520,'"Levottomia unia: Runoja" by Edith Södergran is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The work encompasses a range of themes, including the complexities of existence, nature, love, and the struggles of the human spirit. Södergran''s unique voice emerges through her exploration of intense emotions and vivid imagery, appealing to readers searching for profound reflections on life''s transience and beauty.  At the start of "Levottomia unia," the reader is introduced to a rich and symbolic landscape that reflects Södergran''s internal world. The opening poems articulate feelings of dislocation and yearning, as the narrator grapples with concepts of happiness, love, and identity. Observations of nature, such as trees and seasons, serve as metaphors for emotional states—conveying sorrow, hope, and the longing for connection. These verses reveal the poet''s existential musings while hinting at her own turbulent life, marked by illness and isolation, further deepening the resonance of her work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75053,500,'https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levottomia_unia',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75053,500,'Reading ease score: 42.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75053,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75053,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75054,520,'"Le piante utili dell''Eritrea" by Georg August Schweinfurth is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. The book focuses on the plants of Eritrea that have significant utility, particularly in relation to European industry and trade. Schweinfurth aims to educate readers about the flora of this region, arguing against pessimistic views that dismiss its value to commerce.  The opening of the text sets up Schweinfurth’s argument for the economic potential of Eritrea''s natural resources, particularly its native plants, which have remained largely unknown or undervalued by European merchants and industrialists. He discusses the need for practical knowledge regarding these plants and outlines an approach to classify them by their uses, including medicinal, aromatic, and textile applications. This introductory portion serves to contextualize the author''s field study in Eritrea and lays the groundwork for a detailed catalog of the region''s flora, emphasizing its importance for both local use and broader commercial application. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75054,500,'Reading ease score: 47.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75054,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75054,435);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75055,520,'"Aus meinem Leben" by Emil Fischer is a memoir written in the early 20th century. The text serves as an autobiographical reflection, likely detailing Fischer''s early life experiences and familial background. Given the context of the memoir, it is probable that the author shares insights into his upbringing in Euskirchen and the influences that shaped his educational and professional journey.  The beginning of the memoir introduces readers to Fischer’s childhood in the small town of Euskirchen, where he was born in 1852 as the youngest of eight children. He fondly reminisces about his lively family life, describing both the joys and challenges of growing up with numerous siblings, as well as the bustling activities of his father''s commercial enterprises. The narrative evokes a sense of nostalgia, depicting the familial bonds and the vibrant environment of his early years, infused with a mix of play, learning, and the dynamics of a closely-knit family. Fischer also touches upon his education and early encounters with authority, hinting at the formative experiences that would contribute to his later achievements. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75055,500,'Reading ease score: 58.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75055,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75055,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75056,520,'"Her Kingdom: A Story of the Westmoreland Fells" by Amy Le Feuvre is a fictional novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Anstice Barrett, a young woman who has recently lost her father and now faces unforeseen poverty and challenges in her life. As she navigates her new circumstances, she is confronted with an unexpected marriage proposal that could alter the trajectory of her future, leading her to a new home and the role of a stepmother to three turbulent children.  At the start of the book, Anstice learns from the family lawyer of her dire financial situation, which compels her to seek advice from her cousin, Lady Lucy. This conversation leads to an astonishing proposal from Justin Holme, who offers her a position as both a housekeeper and a wife in a rather unorthodox arrangement aimed at providing stability for his children. The opening chapters capture Anstice’s initial reactions to her father’s death, the overwhelming weight of her new responsibilities, and her fragile hopes for a brighter future amidst uncertainty. The complexities of her relationship with Justin and his children are poised to develop, suggesting an exploration of themes such as love, duty, and resilience in the face of adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75056,500,'Reading ease score: 91.7 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75056,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75056,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75057,520,'"Dreamikins" by Amy Le Feuvre is a children''s fiction novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story centers around two young girls, Freda and Daffy, who embark on whimsical adventures while exploring their new country home, discovering magical elements such as a hidden door to an enchanted garden and meeting a kind man named Fibo who shares stories and a unique friendship with them.   At the start of the story, Freda and Daffy are excitedly exploring their father''s country house, which they are temporarily occupying due to their mother needing time in London while their father is away at war. They discover a locked door in the garden and go on a quest to find a way through it, ultimately uncovering a small door that leads them to a beautiful and magical garden where they meet Fibo. Their adventure unfolds as they engage with the enchanting elements of the garden, forming a bond with Fibo and discovering the magic of friendship and imagination. As the opening progresses, themes of innocence, curiosity, and the interplay between good and evil, as embodied by their encounters, begin to enrich the plot. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75057,500,'Reading ease score: 92.5 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75057,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75057,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75058,520,'"Viimeinen tsaaritar: Romaani nykyajalta" by Gertrud von Brockdorff is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers on the tumultuous life of Empress Alexandra and her experiences surrounding the birth of her daughter, the sense of isolation she feels, and the pressures of living as the wife of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia. As the empress grapples with her personal disappointments and the weight of royal expectations, the story also subtly interweaves themes of political unrest in a changing Russia.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to the intense emotions surrounding the birth of Alexandra''s child, with her husband expressing disappointment at the gender of the heir, expected to be a boy. The atmosphere is filled with a sense of foreboding, as Alexandra grapples with both her feelings of inadequacy and the expectations of her role within the Russian monarchy. Her inner turmoil is exacerbated by the presence of the court''s power players, particularly Konstantin Pobjedonostsev, who represents the political tension within the kingdom. Alexandra''s longing for connection and understanding amid her isolation sets the stage for a deeper exploration of her character and the historical complexities influencing her reign. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75058,500,'Reading ease score: 28.6 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75058,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75058,449);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75059,520,'"The American in Paris; vol. 1 of 2" by John Sanderson is a collection of letters and travel reflections written in the early 19th century. The narrative captures the author''s experiences and observations as he navigates through various towns in France, particularly focusing on Havre and Paris. With a keen eye for detail and social commentary, Sanderson explores the cultural, political, and culinary aspects of French life, providing a vivid portrayal of the differences and similarities he encounters in relation to American life.  The opening of the book introduces us to Havre, where the narrator vividly describes the town''s features, its people, and the local customs. He reflects on the juxtaposition of beauty and decay in the town''s structures, provides insight into his interactions with the locals, and shares his thoughts on societal norms, property ownership, and agricultural practices. Transitioning to Paris, we glimpse the hustle of its streets and the colorful street life, filled with vendors and various characters. Through his observations, the author captures the vibrancy of French culture, the intricacies of daily life, and the distinct ambiance of the places he visits, ultimately setting the stage for deeper explorations in the following letters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75059,500,'Reading ease score: 64.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75059,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75059,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75060,520,'"The American in Paris; vol. 2 of 2" by John Sanderson is a travel narrative written in the early 19th century. The book provides a detailed exploration of Paris, focusing on its churches, cultural practices, and society through the eyes of an American observer. It likely reflects the author''s observations and experiences while traversing Parisian life, offering insights into both French and American cultural contrasts.  The opening portion introduces readers to the various religious practices and notable churches in Paris, beginning with a visit to St. Roch for a mass. Sanderson provides rich descriptions of the liturgical environment, reflecting on the influence of the clergy and the changing status of religion in French society. He also contrasts the grandeur of the churches with the secular pursuits of the French people, highlighting the elegance and ritual of mass while also acknowledging the cynicism and fashion that often accompany such religious observances. The narrative captures a sense of both reverence and irony, providing a vivid portrayal of Paris''s religious landscape interwoven with the complexities of changing societal values. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75060,500,'Reading ease score: 66.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75060,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75060,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75061,520,'"L''Initiation au Péché et à l''Amour" by Édouard Dujardin is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story explores themes of love, sin, and the complexities of human relationships, focusing on the main character, Marcelin Desruyssarts, as he navigates his emotions and experiences in the context of societal expectations and personal struggles.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to Marcelin''s early life, marked by the tragic loss of his mother during childbirth. The narrative unfolds during a Christmas service, where his mother, filled with sorrow, has an epiphany that she is pregnant. After her death, Marcelin grows up in isolation within his family estate, lacking companionship and develop a strong, introspective character. As he matures, he is faced with the pain of unreciprocated love, familial pressures, and an earnest search for meaning. Dujardin uses rich, evocative prose to delve into Marcelin''s psyche, highlighting his inner conflicts and yearnings for connection amidst the backdrop of his quiet, melancholic upbringing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75061,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75061,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75061,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75062,520,'"The Catspaw of Piperock" by W. C. Tuttle is a humorous novel written in the early 20th century. Set during the Christmas season, it revolves around the misadventures of two eccentric characters, Ike Harper and Dirty Shirt Jones, as they navigate life in the small town of Piperock, which is characterized by its quirks and colorful residents. The story is likely to focus on themes of redemption, community, and the humorous chaos that can arise during festive occasions.  The narrative follows Ike Harper and Dirty Shirt Jones as they find themselves in a series of comical situations while attempting to support a local church by raffling off Dirty Shirt''s newly acquired automobile. Amidst their attempts at good deeds and wearing silly costumes for a Christmas show, the characters deal with their reluctant but humorous embrace of community spirit, intertwined with moments of impending mischief from the townsfolk of Piperock and the neighboring towns. As the story unfolds, misunderstandings, unexpected prize winners, and a calamity involving a steer and a camel turn the town’s festive gathering into an uproarious affair, highlighting Tuttle’s skill in blending humor with rustic charm and quick wit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75062,500,'Reading ease score: 92.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75062,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75062,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75063,520,'"Hospital Housekeeping" by Charlotte A. Aikens is a practical manual written in the early 20th century. The book provides insights into the management of household duties within a hospital setting, focusing on responsibilities that fall upon the hospital housekeeper. Aikens aims to guide trained nurses, those with practical experience but lacking formal training, and board members involved in hospital management by detailing various aspects of hospital housekeeping, from cleanliness and organization to bookkeeping and food management.  The opening of the book presents a thorough exploration of the role and qualities needed for a successful hospital housekeeper. Aikens emphasizes the importance of being organized, having a strong sense of justice, and the ability to manage staff effectively. The text underscores that hospital housekeeping involves more than just maintaining cleanliness; it requires a comprehensive understanding of operational details and the ability to manage both people and processes effectively. The introduction sets the stage for a detailed examination of specific duties and responsibilities that will follow in the subsequent chapters, ensuring that readers grasp the multifaceted nature of managing a hospital''s domestic affairs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75063,500,'Reading ease score: 57.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75063,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75063,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75064,520,'"The War Record of the Fifth Company, New England Regiment, Second Plattsburg" is a historical account published in the early 20th century. This work serves as a detailed record for the former members of the Fifth Company, offering insights into their military experiences during World War I. The text is likely to appeal to readers interested in military history, particularly those looking to understand the lives and sacrifices of soldiers from this specific regiment.  The opening of this record contains a transcriber’s note and a foreword that expresses the hopes of the Fifth Company Records Committee that the document serves as a valuable remembrance for past members and their experiences during their service. It lays out a series of detailed entries that enumerate instructors and former candidates of the company, providing background on their military careers, assignments during the war, and what became of them after the war, including notable achievements and, in some cases, details of their death in action. This portion sets the tone for a comprehensive and poignant commemoration of those who served, reflecting both individual and collective narratives of courage and valor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75064,500,'Reading ease score: 53.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75064,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75064,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75065,520,'"Kalle Sarkkisen lapsuuden muistelmia" by C. O. Berg is a collection of childhood memoirs written in the late 19th century. The book recounts the early life experiences of the main character, Kalle Sarkkinen, focusing on his family dynamics, childhood adventures, and the trials and joys of growing up. It paints a nostalgic picture of rural life and childhood innocence.  The opening of the memoir introduces Kalle''s family, including his strict but caring father, a bailiff and farmer, and his loving mother, described as the "best mother in the world." Kalle and his siblings engage in playful antics while struggling with sibling rivalries and the challenge of obeying their mother. The narrative sets the tone with humorous anecdotes, such as the chaos that ensues during a family gathering when a coffee cup breaks, leading to personal reflections on guilt and reconciliation. As Kalle navigates the complexities of childhood, the reader is immersed in a vivid depiction of his home life, familial relationships, and early lessons learned. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75065,500,'Reading ease score: 49.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75065,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75065,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75066,520,'"Lars Porsena: or, the future of swearing and improper language" by Robert Graves is a thought-provoking treatise written in the early 20th century. The book explores the evolution, significance, and social implications of swearing and improper language in society. Through a detailed examination, Graves delves into the cultural and historical context surrounding the use of oaths, blasphemies, and obscenities, presenting a unique perspective on how language reflects societal values and taboos.  In this essay, Graves argues that the decline of swearing in England during the early 20th century may be symptomatic of broader cultural shifts, particularly relating to authority, religious belief, and societal norms. He analyzes the role of various taboos—religious, sexual, and otherwise—in shaping language and how these restrictions impact human expression. By citing historical examples, literary references, and contemporary observations, Graves suggests that the need for swearing arises from a complex interplay between emotion, societal pressures, and the human penchant for rebellion against established norms. Overall, the book serves as both an exploration of language and a cultural commentary on the changing nature of communication in modern society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75066,500,'Reading ease score: 52.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75066,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75066,456);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75067,520,'"The Boys of Columbia High on the River: or, The Boat Race Plot That Failed" by Graham B. Forbes is a children’s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. This story centers around Frank Allen and his friend Lanky Wallace, who find themselves in a predicament after their boat is sabotaged, leading to a series of humorous and suspenseful events as they prepare for an upcoming boat race. The narrative''s lively tone and engaging plot suggest themes of friendship, rivalry, and the challenges of growing up.  At the start of the book, Frank and Lanky are marooned on Rattail Island after discovering a hole bored intentionally in their boat, likely by a rival student named Lef Seller. As they attempt to repair their boat under the light of a campfire, they discuss their recent experiences and the competitive atmosphere surrounding their school sports. Soon after, their boat encounters trouble when a motorboat crashes into it, causing them to end up in the water. This initial conflict sets the stage for their determination to uncover the culprit behind the boat sabotage and highlights their camaraderie as they navigate various challenges together. Additionally, the opening establishes the playful yet competitive spirit of the boys as they engage with the world of school sports and rivalries. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75067,500,'Reading ease score: 80.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75067,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75067,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75068,520,'"Three Girl Chums at Laurel Hall: The Mystery of the School by the Lake" by May Hollis Barton is a novel written in the early 20th century. This story focuses on three main characters—Jo Morley, Nan Harrison, and Sadie Appleby—as they navigate their transition from grammar school to boarding school life at Laurel Hall. The narrative begins with Jo receiving shocking news about her family''s financial difficulties, threatening her plans to attend school with her friends, which sets the stage for a tale of friendship, adventure, and blooming mysteries.  The opening of "Three Girl Chums at Laurel Hall" introduces us to the trio of girls, their strong bond, and the impact of unexpected change on their lives. Jo reveals her father''s business struggles, leading to her inability to attend school with Nan and Sadie. As the girls wrestle with this disappointment, a crisis unfolds when fire threatens Nan''s house, calling Jo and her friends to action as they heroically attempt a rescue. Their efforts reveal their courage and determination, setting the tone for the challenges they are to face at their new school and hinting at deeper mysteries awaiting them at Laurel Hall. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75068,500,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75068,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75068,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75069,520,'"From Tenderfoot to Golden Eaglet: A Girl Scout Story" by Amy Ella Blanchard is a children’s novel likely written in the early 20th century. The book focuses on the protagonist, Joanne Selden, a spirited young girl navigating the challenges of adolescence while involved with the Girl Scouts. It highlights themes of personal growth, friendship, and the importance of outdoor activities and teamwork.  The beginning of the story introduces Joanne as she embarks on a journey by sea with her grandparents. Her curiosity leads her to discover a stowaway boy, Pablo, and a little black pony named Chico, gifted to her grandfather. The interactions among Joanne, her grandparents, and the other passengers set the stage for Joanne’s adventures. As she explores her environment and forms friendships, particularly with a boy named Bob Marriott who introduces her to the idea of joining the Girl Scouts, Joanne''s excitement grows, laying the groundwork for her transition from a tenderfoot to becoming a Golden Eaglet within the organization. The opening portion emphasizes her vibrant spirit and the dynamic relationships she forms, promising an engaging narrative about growing up and discovering new passions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75069,500,'Reading ease score: 90.9 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75069,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75069,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75070,520,'"Larry Dexter and the Bank Mystery; or, Exciting Days in Wall Street" by Raymond Sperry is a children''s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Larry Dexter, a young reporter who embarks on a thrilling quest to uncover the truth behind a million-dollar bank robbery that occurred in New York City. As Larry investigates, readers are drawn into his world of journalism, mystery, and the excitement of Wall Street.  The opening of the narrative introduces Larry and sets the stage for the primary conflict of the story: a significant bank theft that has raised immediate concerns among depositors and bank officials. After receiving an assignment from his city editor, Larry encounters various characters, including a rude commuter and a young woman he previously assisted in the subway. He learns about the robbery and becomes determined to solve the mystery, which involves tracing clues from the bank''s missing money and the strange bags associated with it. The plot unfolds as Larry navigates interactions with bank officials, clashes with rival reporters, and faces the challenges that come with being a rookie investigator in a high-stakes environment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75070,500,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75070,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75070,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75071,520,'"Bad and mad" by W. C. Tuttle is a short story that falls within the western genre, written in the late 1920s. The story explores themes of identity, morality, and the complexity of familial relations in the rugged backdrop of the American West, framed through the interactions between two twin brothers—one a sheriff and the other a bank robber.  The narrative begins with a tense standoff between the sheriff, Ben, and his twin brother, Harry, who has just robbed a bank. The brothers engage in a witty, antagonistic dialogue, revealing their starkly different paths in life. As the plot unfolds, Harry overpowers Ben, leading to a violent struggle that ends with Ben''s death. Harry assumes his brother’s identity, planning to exploit the situation in Oro City. However, unbeknownst to Harry, he has returned to a community that believes Ben has lost his mind. The story culminates with his capture, revealing the futility of his deceit and the tragic ends to which their choices have led them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75071,500,'Reading ease score: 93.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75071,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75071,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75072,520,'"Note concernant les Aoulad-Daoud du Mont Aurès (Aourâs)" by Émile Masqueray is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. The book examines the Aoulad-Daoud, a group of Berbers from the Aurès Mountains in Algeria, and provides detailed insights into their geography, social structure, and historical background. It serves as both an ethnographic study and a geographical account of the region and its people.  In this work, Masqueray documents his observations from living alongside the Aoulad-Daoud, detailing their settlement patterns, culture, and daily life. He explains the socio-political landscape of the Aourâs region, highlighting the complex relationships between various Berber tribes and their past interactions, including conflicts and territorial disputes. Through a mix of firsthand accounts and historical context, the book showcases the lifestyle of the Aoulad-Daoud, who are depicted as semi-nomadic and interconnected through a network of villages, each with its unique characteristics. The author emphasizes the importance of understanding their culture and the impacts of colonization on their way of life, ultimately providing a valuable resource for anyone interested in the ethnography and history of the region. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75072,500,'Reading ease score: 58.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75072,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75072,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75073,520,'"Äiti: Romaani" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the late 19th century. The book explores complex themes of motherhood, sacrifice, and moral struggle as the protagonist, Maria Maddalena, grapples with the troubling behavior of her son, Paulo. Central to the narrative is the relationship between mother and son, particularly as Paulo becomes increasingly entwined with a mysterious woman, leading to strife and emotional turmoil within their household.  At the start of the story, we meet Maria Maddalena, who is anxiously waiting for her son Paulo, who she suspects is sneaking out at night. As she listens to his stealthy movements, her worry intensifies and she recalls Paulo''s recent troubling behaviors, which include spending more time grooming himself and showing interest in women, actions she fears may steer him into sin. When she decides to follow him one night, she discovers that he is heading to a home not far from theirs, one that harbors a young woman who is alone and alluring. The tension of Maria’s protective instincts and Paulo’s desires sets the stage for a conflict that delves deeply into themes of temptation and the frailty of human morality, all while the ominous force of the night serves as a backdrop to their unfolding drama. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75073,500,'Reading ease score: 43.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75073,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75073,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75074,520,'"Elementary Cryptanalysis" by Helen Fouché Gaines is a scientific publication written in the late 1930s. This work serves as an instructional guide on the analysis and deciphering of various types of ciphers, primarily aimed at enthusiasts and students interested in cryptography. The book claims to fill a significant gap in English-language literature regarding cryptanalysis, providing readers with both theoretical knowledge and practical examples of how to solve cryptograms.  The opening portion of the text introduces the definitions of key terms in cryptography, such as cryptography and cryptanalysis, while also highlighting the scarcity of accessible works on the latter topic for general readers. Gaines outlines the main types of ciphers, including concealment, transposition, and substitution, and emphasizes that her treatise focuses on basics rather than historical or literary aspects of ciphers. The preface sets up an educational framework to equip readers with the fundamentals they need to analyze and solve cryptograms, supported by a wealth of examples and exercises designed to test their skills. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75074,500,'Reading ease score: 66.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75074,430);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75074,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75075,520,'"Salvage—extra special" by Holman Day is a maritime adventure story written during the early 20th century. This tale follows Captain Rawson Bent of the coast-guard cutter "Arrowsic" as he embarks on a rescue mission for a distressed schooner named "Harvest Home". The narrative delves into themes of duty, resilience, and the murky waters of moral choice against the backdrop of the sea.  The story begins with Captain Bent’s cutter returning to port after a patrol, only to receive an urgent call about the stranded "Harvest Home", which is being tossed in the tumultuous seas off Popham Sands. As Bent navigates the challenges of the rescue, he discovers that the crew is not merely in distress but is entangled in dubious dealings involving illegal liquor—further complicated when he encounters the former captain of the "Harvest Home", Captain York Coombs. Their reunion is marked by a mix of nostalgia and regret, revealing Coombs''s fall from grace and challenges as a fugitive from the law. Ultimately, Bent not only manages to tow the crippled vessel to safety but also aims to aid Coombs in confronting his troubled past, weaving a poignant tale of redemption and camaraderie amidst the ever-present peril of the sea. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75075,500,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75075,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75075,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75076,520,'"An Interrupted Night" by Isabella M. Alden, known as Pansy, is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The book revolves around the experiences of Mary Dunlap, a writer of great character and wisdom, as she encounters a young couple, the Kellers, during a fateful train journey. The narrative delves into the themes of love, deception, and maternal protection as Mary observes the tumultuous relationship between the young bride, Daisy, and her husband, Rufus, who is revealed to be less than honorable.  At the start of the story, the train carrying the characters limps along, causing delays that foreshadow the chaotic events to come. Mary Dunlap, while busy with her own endeavors, becomes embroiled in the tense dynamics between the Kellers, who are evidently facing personal struggles. The scene shifts from lighthearted observation to one filled with drama and concern as Mary''s protective instincts kick in upon witnessing the young bride''s distress. With her heart turned towards the girl, Mary resolves to intervene in what seems like a dire situation, setting the stage for a poignant exploration of truths and moral dilemmas. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75076,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75076,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75077,520,'"The Structure of the English Sentence" by Lillian G. Kimball is an instructional textbook focused on English grammar written in the late 19th century. The book aims to enhance readers'' understanding of English sentence structure and grammar with an emphasis on the importance of communication and clarity in expressing thoughts. It seeks to transform the often dry study of grammar into a more engaging exploration of language use.  At the start of the text, the author outlines a clear vision for how English grammar should be approached, emphasizing that it is not merely a collection of rules but a study of thought and expression. Kimball advocates for analyzing sentences as whole units that convey ideas, encouraging readers to understand the relationships between different components such as subjects and predicates. This foundation sets the stage for examining various aspects of sentence structure, aiming to equip students with the analytical tools necessary for effective writing and communication. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75077,500,'Reading ease score: 66.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75077,456);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75077,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75078,520,'"Lettres à Françoise" by Marcel Prévost is a collection of letters written in the early 20th century. The work is presented as a series of correspondence between the author and his young niece, Françoise, offering insights and advice as she prepares to enter society after her education. The letters explore themes of femininity, personal development, and the transition from adolescence to adulthood, addressing the unique challenges faced by women during that time period.  At the start of the book, the author reflects on his relationship with Françoise, emphasizing the importance of the advice he imparts through their correspondence. He acknowledges the generational differences that exist between them and expresses the desire to prepare her for the realities of life outside the confines of her educational institution. The opening details Françoise’s thoughts about her education, her aspirations, and her curiosity about the world, creating a context in which the letters will serve as both guidance and a broader commentary on the evolving role of women in society at the dawn of the 20th century. This initial portion sets the tone for a thoughtful exploration of personal growth and societal expectations, especially in relation to women’s emerging identities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75078,500,'Reading ease score: 69.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75078,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75078,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75079,520,'"A Gyurkovics-lányok" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the lives and romantic pursuits of the Gyurkovics sisters, emphasizing themes of love, social status, and the customs of their time. The narrative introduces the characters and their social circles, particularly focusing on their interactions with potential suitors, setting the stage for both humor and drama that unfolds in their lives.  At the start of the novel, the narrator shares the fun and challenges of attending a baptism in Szerémség, where various characters, including the narrator and Horkay Feri, an old friend, engage in lively conversation about the Gyurkovics sisters. The chapter introduces readers to the vibrant personalities of these sisters, setting up the expectations for their respective love stories, as Horkay recalls fondly the sisters'' beauty and their family''s social reputation. The opening masterfully paints a colorful picture of both the societal expectations and personal quirks that shape the lives of the Gyurkovics family, making it clear that the narrative will delve into the whimsical and, at times, serious adventures of these young women. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75079,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Gyurkovics-l%C3%A1nyok',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75079,500,'Reading ease score: 65.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75079,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75080,520,'"Kulku-ukon kertomuksia kansan elämästä" by Juho Heikki Reijonen is a collection of narratives reflecting the life of the Finnish people, written in the early 20th century. The stories seem to focus on the experiences and musings of a character named Sippo Kelles, who lives in a rural setting and grapples with the complexities of his community life, familial responsibilities, and occasional forays into the local legal system.  The opening of the work introduces Sippo Kelles, who resides in a modest homestead with his wife, Maija-Liisa, and their children. Despite his limited worldly experiences, Sippo reminisces about past events and prepares for an upcoming court case, which he initially finds daunting but eventually comes to view with an aspect of excitement. As the narrative unfolds, we see Sippo''s thoughts about legalities, his humorous yet candid observations of village life, and the unexpected chaos that ensues when he proposes the need for a guardian for his daughter, Anni, due to an anticipated legal matter. This opening sets the stage for a blend of humor, community dynamics, and the challenges of rural life in early 20th-century Finland. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75080,500,'Reading ease score: 47.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75080,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75080,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75081,520,'"Notices on the Outlasting War Sites" by the Belgian Ministère de la défense nationale is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work presents a detailed exploration of war sites along the Belgian coast that were significant during World War I, specifically focusing on the defenses established by the Germans. The account likely serves both as a record of historical sites and a reflection on the events that transpired during the war.  At the start of the text, the reader is introduced to a variety of war sites, beginning with an overview of the German coast defenses along the Belgian coastline. The opening segment discusses the organization and power of these defenses, detailing various artillery placements such as the "Kaiser Wilhelm II" battery and its operational capabilities. The text delves into both the technical specifications of weaponry and the strategic significance of these sites during military operations, including notable naval engagements and the eventual British raid against Zeebrugge. Overall, this initial portion sets the tone for an informative account that combines military history with a vivid depiction of the wartime landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75081,500,'Reading ease score: 57.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75081,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75081,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75082,520,'"Egy pesti leány története" by Ferenc Molnár is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story explores the life and experiences of a young woman named Elza, who navigates the social dynamics and expectations within the city of Budapest. The narrative promises insights into her interactions, emotional dilemmas, and the various male characters that become prominent in her life.  The opening of the story sets a serene winter scene in Budapest, with snow blanketing the area and a peaceful ambiance enveloping the street. As the night progresses, a group of lively young men and women emerge from a nearby villa, leading to a lighthearted atmosphere filled with laughter and playful banter. Central to this gathering is Elza, characterized by her vivacious spirit and engaging conversation, as she walks with a young man named Artur. Their interaction reveals the complexities of their relationship, particularly as Artur attempts to express his feelings for her, which she playfully dismisses. Their dialogue provides a humorous glimpse into the social conventions of the time while hinting at Elza’s deeper desires and frustrations regarding societal expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75082,500,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75082,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75082,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75083,520,'"Begierde: Ein Berliner Roman" by Jolanthe Marès is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in Berlin and introduces us to several characters navigating societal expectations around relationships, personal ambitions, and the quest for fulfillment. It delves into the lives of women grappling with the notions of love and desire against the backdrop of a rapidly changing society.  At the start of the novel, we meet Miss Webb, an American woman, who is astonished at the elegance of German women, contradicting the stereotypes she grew up with. Her conversation with Lotte Wunsch reveals differing perspectives on motherhood, career, and the societal roles of women. The narrative then transitions to introduce Fräulein von Wangenheim, an aspiring artist who yearns for recognition but has experienced men’s predatory behavior, leading her to question her aspirations and the morality of love in her life. Throughout these exchanges, the characters embody the struggles of women seeking identity and place in both their personal lives and the broader artistic community in Berlin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75083,500,'Reading ease score: 84.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75083,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75083,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75084,520,'"Elias Portolu: Romaani" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the Portolu family, particularly focusing on the return of Elias Portolu, a man who has recently been released from prison. As the family prepares for his homecoming alongside the upcoming wedding of another son, the narrative delves into themes of family bonds, societal expectations, and the inner struggles of Elias as he reintegrates into life at home.  The opening portion introduces us to Elias’s family in Nuoro, Sardinia, providing a rich tapestry of their lives and anticipation for Elias''s return. His mother, Annedda, is depicted as a devoted and caring figure, eagerly waiting for him, while the rest of the family engages in preparations for a celebration. The atmosphere is festive yet tinged with the complexities of Elias''s past experiences and his struggle to adapt to life after imprisonment. As friends and relatives gather to welcome him, Elias''s demeanor hints at a deep inner conflict, showcasing his vulnerability and the challenges he faces as he reconnects with family and relationships. The scene establishes not just familial joy but also a sense of foreboding regarding Elias''s ability to move forward after his traumatic experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75084,500,'https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elias_Portolu',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75084,500,'Reading ease score: 52.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75084,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75084,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75085,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0030: De Directeur der Koloniale Vereeniging" by Kurt Matull et al. is a fictional novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around the character John Raffles, also known as Lord Lister, who encounters fraudulent schemes tied to colonial ventures in Africa, particularly involving a dubious Belgian company promising wealth to unsuspecting investors. The book appears to explore themes of deception, colonial exploitation, and the pursuit of fortune.  The opening of the novel introduces John Raffles and his secretary, Charly Brand, as they react to a prospectus advertising a seemingly miraculous opportunity for wealth in Africa. Raffles’ indignation over the prospectus reveals not only his contempt for the unscrupulousness of the colonizers but also sets the stage for his intentions to confront these swindlers. After determining to visit the director of the Colonial Association in Brussels, Raffles’ journey begins, plotting his course through the moral complexities of colonialism while hinting at his shrewd character and adventurous spirit. As the narrative unfolds, it lays the groundwork for Raffles'' escapades and the challenges he will face in Kilambayo, illustrating the tension between aspiration and the harsh realities of colonial enterprises. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75085,500,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75085,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75085,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75086,520,'"Im Banne der freien Reichsstadt" by Brigitte Augusti is a historical narrative written in the late 19th century. The story is set against the backdrop of 15th-century Germany and focuses on the lives and struggles of individuals in the city of Nuremberg during a turbulent historical period marked by political and social upheaval. At its center, the narrative features Afra, a woman enduring the hardships of war and loss, as well as her family’s quest for safety amid the chaos.  The opening of the work introduces the aftermath of the fall of the Hohenstaufen dynasty and the subsequent fragmentation of Germany into small states. It vividly describes the tumultuous circumstances surrounding Nuremberg and the siege of Liège by Duke Charles the Bold. Afra, a young mother, anxiously awaits her husband Matthias''s return from the battlefield, embodying the fear and uncertainty faced by civilians during wartime. When Matthias returns wounded, the couple must confront imminent danger as the city faces another assault. The story sets a tone of resilience and familial love amid despair, laying the groundwork for the unfolding themes of survival and societal change against the grand tapestry of history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75086,500,'Reading ease score: 73.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75086,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75086,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75087,520,'"Az uj nemzedék" by Knut Hamsun is a novel written in the late 19th century." The story unfolds in the fictional town of Segelfoss, where tensions arise among characters delineated by ambition, personal relationships, and societal expectations. The plot initially revolves around young businessman Theodor, who struggles with his relationship with his ailing father and his unrequited love for a local girl, all set against the backdrop of local commerce and community living.  "At the start of "Az uj nemzedék," the narrative introduces various characters embroiled in a conflict triggered by an act of violence involving Willatz, who readily admits to striking Aslak." The focus quickly shifts to Theodor''s personal life, revealing his aspirations and disappointments, particularly related to business ambitions and romantic pursuits. The local newspaper also features critiques of the town''s cultural life, particularly the performance of a theater troupe that creates a buzz within the community. This mix of personal and public drama sets the stage for Theodor''s character development as he navigates his ambitions while contending with family pressures and unrequited feelings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75087,500,'Reading ease score: 66.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75087,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75088,520,'"Eros és az evangéliumok: Egy csavargó följegyzéseiből" by Waldemar Bonsels is a novel written in the early 20th century." The narrative seems to explore profound themes surrounding love, existence, and mortality, primarily through the eyes of a main character who encounters profound emotional experiences while dealing with a sick woman named Aszja. The story appears to delve into a transformative journey, where the protagonist grapples with his feelings and perceptions of life, love, and the human experience.  "At the start of the novel, the protagonist''s mundane existence is interrupted when he takes his worn-out boots to a cobbler named Stevenhagen." As he navigates the memories and feelings associated with his dilapidated footwear, he is drawn to the haunting cries of a sick girl, Aszja, and her mother. This encounter ignites an unexpected connection, leading him into a contemplative dialogue about life, suffering, and hope. The opening chapters set the tone for the protagonist''s internal struggles as he oscillates between despair for Aszja''s illness and a growing love that challenges his understanding of life and purpose. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75088,500,'Reading ease score: 63.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75088,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75088,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75089,520,'"Gleanings from Chinese Folklore" by Nellie N. Russell is a collection of stories and folklore written in the early 20th century. The work reflects the rich narrative tradition of Chinese culture, showcasing tales that range from heroic accounts to moral lessons derived from everyday life. The collection likely serves as both a tribute to the author''s experiences in China and a means of sharing these captivating stories with a Western audience.  The opening of the book sets the stage for the author''s dedication to Nellie N. Russell, emphasizing her life as a missionary in China and her passion for the local communities she served. It outlines her significant contributions and the deep connections she formed throughout her mission work. Through the initial chapters, we are introduced to various characters and narratives, such as the brave Liu Chin Ting, likened to Joan of Arc, and the touching tale of a daughter’s love for her father, illustrating the themes of sacrifice, courage, and the enduring spirit of humanity in the face of adversity. This rich opening not only reflects the tales themselves but also captures the essence of Russell''s heartfelt commitment to the culture she embraced. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75089,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75089,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75089,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75090,520,'"Heräävä heimo" by Vilho Helanen is a dramatic play set in the early 20th century, specifically during the tumultuous period of the Estonian War of Independence in January 1919. The narrative unfolds in a village in Northern Estonia, focusing on the struggles of a family caught in the conflict between Estonian forces and the advancing Russian troops. The story explores themes of patriotism, sacrifice, and the fight for national identity.  The play centers around Dr. Jaan Järv, his wife Linda, and their children Kaarel and Salme, as they navigate the horrors of war and the personal turmoil that accompanies it. Kaarel, a soldier, is haunted by his experiences in battle, while Salme becomes a symbol of courage and determination. The arrival of Finnish volunteers offers a glimmer of hope amid despair. Tension escalates with the entrance of the Russian lieutenant Vasilij Aleksandrovitš, who poses a threat to Salme''s safety. Ultimately, the narrative culminates in a dramatic conclusion where sacrifice and heroism are on full display as characters confront their fates, reflecting the broader struggle for freedom and independence facing their nation. Through its poignant dialogue and intense emotions, the play captures the essence of a society on the brink of transformation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75090,500,'Reading ease score: 56.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75090,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75090,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75091,520,'"Tapojen historiaa: Kuusi akadeemista esitelmää" by Edvard Westermarck is a collection of academic lectures written in the early 20th century. The work explores the history and significance of social customs across various cultural contexts, particularly focusing on the roles of men and women, family dynamics, and broader societal norms. Through this examination, Westermarck seeks to illuminate the roots of human behavior and civilization.  The opening of this work introduces the author''s intention to delve into significant aspects of social customs, specifically the status of women in early cultures. Westermarck outlines his method of inquiry, emphasizing the importance of understanding customs as both habitual actions and codes of conduct that shape societal expectations. He discusses the complexities inherent in the roles assigned to men and women, touching on various forms of familial relationships, societal obligations, and their influences. This portion sets the stage for a detailed exploration of how customs are not only remnants of primitive societies but also continue to affect social interactions and values in contemporary cultures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75091,500,'Reading ease score: 27.0 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75091,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75091,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75092,520,'"Fix Bayonets!" by John W. Thomason, Jr. is a historical account centered on the experiences of the United States Marine Corps during World War I, specifically written in the 1920s. This narrative brings to life the spirit and camaraderie of the Marines as they face the harrowing realities of battle, particularly during the fierce fighting around the Bois de Belleau. The book highlights the valor and humanity of the soldiers involved, integrating personal anecdotes and reflections on the horrors of war.  At the start of the book, the narrative sets the stage in a wartime context, offering a glimpse of the Marines as they prepare for battle amidst the chaos of artillery fire and the shelling that plagues the front lines. The opening scenes introduce various characters within the battalion, showcasing their diverse backgrounds and thoughts on the war. Humor is interspersed with grim realities, as the men grapple with hunger, fear, and the relentless approaching enemy. The vivid descriptions of life in the trenches, the psychological strain of combat, and the men’s determination to press on echo throughout Thomason''s prose, establishing a poignant atmosphere that blends bravado with the harsh truths of warfare. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75092,500,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75092,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75093,520,'"The Cradle of the Deep" by Joan Lowell is a memoir written in the early 20th century. This narrative chronicles the adventurous life of Joan Lowell, who grew up aboard a trading schooner in the South Seas, the daughter of a sea captain. The book offers an intimate glimpse into her unique childhood experiences, filled with maritime tales, the camaraderie of sailors, and the struggles of daily life at sea.  At the start of the memoir, we are introduced to young Joan living on her father''s ship, the "Minnie A. Caine". Through her perspective, we learn about her upbringing surrounded solely by men and the eccentricities of life aboard—such as her first feeding as a baby from a goat obtained by a sailor named Stitches. She describes both her playful adventures and the rigid discipline enforced by her father, along with her attempts to understand life, love, and nature through her unique lens. The opening chapters blend humor and wisdom, showcasing the intricate relationships Joan has with her father, the crew, and the life lessons she learns navigating her oceanic world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75093,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75093,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75093,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75094,520,'"The Trap" by Murray Leinster is a crime fiction story written in the late 1920s. The narrative revolves around the themes of murder, deception, and the significance of reputation, particularly focusing on how a seemingly perfect crime can unravel through unforeseen circumstances. The story illustrates the lengths individuals may go to preserve their image and the eventual consequences that ensue when one tries to outsmart the law.  In "The Trap," we follow the character Colby, who meticulously plans and executes the murder of Grahame, a bootleg operator, to steal a significant amount of cash. Initially believing his plan flawless, Colby is soon haunted by the reputation of Detective Sergeant Nesbit, who he fears might connect Grahame’s disappearance to him. As anxiety sets in, Colby receives a letter addressed to Grahame, which he perceives as a trap by Nesbit to catch him. The story escalates into a psychological battle, where Colby''s paranoia about being discovered intensifies. Ultimately, he confesses to the murder, only to learn that things are not as they seem, and his own assumptions have ensnared him in a trap of his own making, showcasing the disastrous impact of underestimating others and overestimating oneself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75094,500,'Reading ease score: 74.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75094,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75094,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75095,520,'"The Radio Cop" by Vic Whitman is a crime fiction novel written in the early 20th century. The book centers around the character of Dave Cates, a police radio operator who is caught in the crossfire of gang rivalries and the challenges that accompany his unique position. With a combination of wit, bravery, and an unlikely romance, Cates navigates the dangerous world of organized crime while striving to prove himself in a field that often overlooks his capabilities.  The story unfolds as Dave Cates broadcasts police information over the radio, using his engaging voice to relay messages to the public and fellow officers while facing threats from the criminal underworld. After receiving a warning from gangsters, he is unexpectedly saved by a mysterious girl, Anabelle Talbot, who becomes a pivotal character in his life. As Cates investigates gang leader Big Ed Margolo, he finds himself deep in the chaos of a crime war while forming a bond with Anabelle, who cannot speak due to her condition. Their relationship develops, leading to a dramatic climax when Cates confronts Margolo, testing both his skills as a police officer and the strength of their connection. The story is filled with tension, humor, and heart, portraying the conflicts of a radio cop who longs for both excitement and personal recognition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75095,500,'Reading ease score: 84.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75095,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75095,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75096,520,'"Boots: A Story of the Sierra of Peru" by Murray Leinster is a short story that falls within the adventure genre, written in the late 1920s. Set in the lush jungles and rugged mountains of Peru, the narrative explores themes of ambition, desperation, and the complex interactions between different cultures, particularly between Native Americans and white adventurers. The central plot revolves around the motivations and actions of the protagonist, Juan, as he navigates the arrival of three white men who embody both madness and opportunity.  The story begins with Juan, a mostly Araucanian Indian, who maintains a simple life in the jungle until he encounters three destitute and seemingly insane white men on a quest for emeralds. As the men eat his meager food and tell wild stories about their fortunes, Juan''s initial fear turns to scorn as he observes their hunger and gluttony. Fueled by his own feelings of inferiority and a desire to impress a beautiful woman back home, Juan''s envy of the dark man''s boots sparks a transformation within him. Tension escalates when he realizes that one of the men plans to betray the others for the emeralds. In a moment of fear and desperation, Juan acts decisively, killing the would-be murderer with a swift arrow. In the end, Juan takes the boots as a symbol of power and status, leaving the emeralds behind, highlighting the story''s moral complexities and the thin line between sanity and madness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75096,500,'Reading ease score: 84.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75096,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75096,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75097,520,'"Flying down a rainbow" by Homer King Gordon is a short story published in the late 1920s, known for its adventure and themes centered around the gold rush prospecting era. The narrative revolves around the hopeful yet struggling pilot Jimmy Devlin, who is determined to make a name for himself in the competitive world of aeronautics, while also delving into the timeless lure of gold mining and the eccentric characters that embody the spirit of this quest.  The story follows Jimmy Devlin, who, despite his financial constraints, manages to restore an old biplane called the "Calico Peacock." After a challenging start, he unexpectedly meets an elderly prospector, Ed Weber, who enlists his help to reach a newly discovered gold location in Keno, Nevada. Their journey is fraught with mechanical failures and risky decisions, culminating in a crash landing. However, amid the crisis, they discover a rich deposit of gold ore, uncovering the twist of fate that ultimately leads them to unexpected fortune, making them realize that serendipity often plays a pivotal role in the pursuit of dreams. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75097,500,'Reading ease score: 81.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75097,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75097,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75098,520,'"Hooking a Sky Ride" by Dan Morrissey is a nostalgic short story written in the late 1920s. This piece captures the adventurous spirit of youth, focusing on themes of dreams, daring escapades, and the thrill of aviation. Set against the backdrop of military training fields in San Antonio, Texas, during a period when aviation was rapidly emerging, the story provides an engaging exploration of childhood curiosity and impulsiveness.  In this tale, the protagonist, a thirteen-year-old boy, and his younger brother Frank become captivated by the airplanes flying over their father’s farm. Their admiration for the young cadets turns into a daring plan to "hook a ride" on a military aircraft. When they sneak onto Brooks Field, the older brother manages to cling to a Vicker-Vimy pursuit plane as it takes off, leading to an exhilarating and harrowing adventure in the skies. The thrill of soaring above San Antonio is quickly overshadowed by fear and the physical struggle to maintain his grip as the plane performs stunts. Eventually, his reckless adventure ends with a safe landing, bringing a mix of relief and reprimand from adults. Ultimately, the experience leaves him with a newfound respect for the dangers of flying, metaphorically marking the end of his childhood ambitions of being a daredevil in aviation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75098,500,'Reading ease score: 76.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75098,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75098,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75099,520,'"The Red-Hot Dollar: And Other Stories from the Black Cat" by H. D. Umbstaetter is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. This anthology showcases a variety of engaging narratives that were previously published in the magazine "The Black Cat," known for its unique tales. The title story introduces readers to Ansel Hobart, a character whose chance encounter with a peculiar silver dollar triggers a wild chase intertwined with themes of love and mystery.  At the start of the book, readers are immediately drawn into the story of Ansel Hobart, who experiences a series of unfortunate events after he instinctively jumps off a train only to miss it. After frantically trying to retrieve change for some coffee, he finds a remarkable silver dollar that appears to be crucial to bridging the distance between him and his new bride. The narrative unfolds as Hobart goes on a seemingly whimsical quest through various characters and settings to trace the origins of the coin, setting off a chain of events that reveal deeper connections and unexpected revelations. This unique premise blends romance, adventure, and a hint of mystery, ensuring readers are captivated from the very first chapter. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75099,500,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75099,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75099,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75100,520,'"La petite faunesse : roman" by Charles Derennes is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in a picturesque French town and revolves around a rich tapestry of local history, culture, and colorful characters. The narrative begins with reflections on the town''s past, imbued with historical conflicts, and introduces a subtle sense of melancholy blended with vibrant life.  The opening of the novel paints a vivid picture of a quaint town characterized by its historical remnants and the mingled presence of joy and despair. It introduces the main character, Michel, who is the son of the marquis de Roquebusane, reflecting on his childhood and the peculiarities of local traditions and festivities, particularly focused around a notable hunting event. As the town prepares for the rituals of the hunt led by the marquis Sulpice d''Escorral, the dynamics between social status, personal identities, and budding romances emerge. The young protagonist is drawn towards Ève, a spirited and unconventional young woman, hinting at a romantic entanglement that will develop as the narrative unfolds. Overall, this beginning sets the stage for themes of love, heritage, and the juxtaposition of youthful desires with societal expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75100,500,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75100,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75100,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75101,520,'"Binney the Beaver, and Other Stories" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a collection of children''s stories published in the late 19th century. The book primarily focuses on the life of a young beaver named Binney as he navigates various challenges and adventures in his woodland home, alongside lessons about community, responsibility, and the consequences of idleness. This enchanting collection also features related tales that explore themes of kindness, family, and the importance of hard work.  The stories in this collection follow Binney''s journey from a playful young beaver to a more responsible member of his community. Throughout the narrative, Binney grapples with temptations to be idle, and his encounters with both good and bad companions serve as critical turning points in his character development. For instance, after meeting a lazy wood-beaver, Binney learns valuable lessons about the importance of hard work and the dangers of poor influences. In addition to Binney''s story, other tales in the collection broaden the themes of companionship, loyalty, and the importance of nurturing each other’s well-being within a community—ultimately imparting timeless moral teachings suitable for young readers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75101,500,'Reading ease score: 86.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75101,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75102,520,'"Nigel Browning" by Agnes Giberne is a work of fiction likely written in the late 19th century. The story opens with the protagonist, Nigel Browning, returning home after a year of traveling around the world. As he navigates his familiar town and people, the narrative hints at deeper familial ties and relationships, particularly concerning his interactions with friends and potential romantic interests.  The opening portion of the book introduces us to Nigel as he arrives back in Newton Bury, greeted by an old porter named Pollard. As Nigel makes his way home, we see his emotional connection to the setting, especially his longing for Ethel, the young woman who occupies a significant place in his heart. The scene shifts between past relationships and present realities, revealing a complex family dynamic, including remarks about Mr. Browning’s health and the expectations surrounding Nigel''s return. The chapter lays the groundwork for themes of love, duty, and the search for identity, setting a reflective tone as Nigel reintegrates into the life he left behind. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75102,500,'Reading ease score: 85.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75102,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75103,520,'"Sioux-intiaanien kynsissä: Kertomus Texasista" by Emil von Nord is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. It narrates the encounters and challenges faced by a group of hunters in Texas as they navigate through the treacherous landscape and confront the Sioux Indian tribe. The book explores themes of survival, conflict, and the complex relationships between settlers and Native Americans during a tumultuous period in American history.  The story follows three rugged hunters—known as "Karhuntappaja," "Kotkansilmä," and "Nopsajalkainen hirvi"—as they embark on a journey through Texas, facing the brutal heat and harsh wilderness. Along the way, they stumble upon a group of settlers, unaware of the imminent danger posed by Sioux warriors. As they work together to fend off attacks from the Sioux, the hunters demonstrate their skills in survival and combat. Ultimately, their bravery leads to a dramatic rescue operation, highlighting the themes of camaraderie and the fight for survival against overwhelming odds. The characters exhibit a strong sense of moral integrity as they protect the innocent and combat the violent clashes of their time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75103,500,'Reading ease score: 32.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75103,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75103,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75104,520,'"Amerikkalaisia kaskuja" by Mark Twain is a collection of humorous short stories written in the early 20th century. This book explores various aspects of American life and culture through a series of anecdotes and satire, reflecting Twain''s sharp wit and keen observation of society.  The collection features a variety of characters and scenarios that showcase the absurdities of politics, social norms, and human behavior. One notable story revolves around Twain''s fictitious candidacy for governor, where he humorously navigates the outrageous accusations and scandals that arise during his campaign. Other tales involve a clever woman acting as a detective, a dog that falls from a balloon without harm, and a comical account of a young man''s misadventures upon returning home from America. Each story is infused with Twain’s characteristic humor, often delivering poignant critiques of societal expectations and human folly, making it a delightful read for those interested in American humor and literature. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75104,500,'Reading ease score: 42.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75104,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75104,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75105,520,'"The Garden of Desire: Love Sonnets to a Spanish Monk" by Edna Worthley Underwood is a collection of poetic works written during the early 20th century. This book features a series of love sonnets that express themes of passion, longing, and the complexities of love, often framed through the lens of a romantic relationship with a Spanish monk. The lyrical nature of the poems captures the intensity of desire and the conflict between religious devotion and earthly romance.  In this collection, the speaker navigates a deep emotional landscape, exploring the nature of love that is both tumultuous and transcendent. The poems depict vivid imagery of longing and mythical representations, as the speaker reflects on her encounters with her beloved monk, intertwined with memories and fantasies of Spain. Through the lyrical verses, a rich tapestry of emotions is woven, showcasing both the enchantment and the heartache that comes from a love marked by societal constraints and personal desires. The poignant musings reveal the struggle between spiritual aspirations and earthly affections, emphasizing the universal quest for connection and fulfillment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75105,500,'Reading ease score: 85.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75105,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75105,481);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75106,520,'"La Ville au Bois dormant : De Saïgon à Ang-Kor en automobile" by Montpensier is an exploratory travel account written in the early 20th century. This work chronicles an ambitious journey undertaken by the author and his companions as they attempt to traverse from Saïgon, Vietnam, to the ancient ruins of Ang-Kor in Cambodia via automobile. It blends vivid descriptions of the Southeast Asian landscape with humorous anecdotes of the trials faced during the expedition, highlighting both the allure and challenges of adventure travel in that era.  At the start of the narrative, the author expresses excitement and trepidation as they finally arrive in Saïgon, reflecting on their long preparations and the status of their beloved automobile, the Diétrich. This opening portion emphasizes the anxieties of the travelers, particularly regarding their vehicle''s condition after mishaps during transit. As they survey the familiar yet daunting terrain ahead, they engage in discussions about the impracticality of their journey. The text sets the stage for the adventure that follows, filled with mishaps, encounters with local cultures, and the rituals of preparing for a trek into an exotic yet unpredictable frontier, as the group starts their expedition to Ang-Kor filled with hope and zest. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75106,500,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75106,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75106,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75107,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75107,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75107,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75108,520,'"Musta naamio : Kertomus" by R. Waldheim is a historical novel likely written in the early 20th century. The book explores themes of freedom, slavery, and the struggles for emancipation in the context of the American South during a tumultuous period marked by the fight for justice and humanity.   The narrative follows a young German settler, Fritz Ligner, as he becomes embroiled in a series of events involving a runaway slave named Sam. Sam''s flight for freedom leads him to Fritz''s farm, where they both face the wrath of slave hunters, particularly a man named Jervis. As tension rises, Fritz and his family must navigate the dangers posed by those who seek to uphold the institution of slavery while also showing compassion towards those affected by it. The story culminates in a violent confrontation involving freedom fighters, culminating in Fritz''s enlistment in the army to continue the fight against oppression. The narrative ultimately emphasizes themes of bravery, loyalty, and the quest for freedom against the backdrop of a divided nation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75108,500,'Reading ease score: 36.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75108,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75108,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75109,520,'"Tulisieluja: Tulevaisuudenromaani" by Annie Francé is a science fiction novel written in the early 20th century. The story introduces a future world where technology has revolutionized daily life, showcasing a utopian society that has eliminated the need for traditional agriculture and labor. The main character, Henrik 19530, is a scientist troubled by the implications of artificial food sources and the societal changes they bring, particularly as he grapples with a looming crisis that threatens the city’s very existence.  The opening of the novel presents a vibrant, futuristic city, A 15, preparing for a grand celebration amid bustling activity and advanced technology. In contrast to this festive atmosphere, Henrik is portrayed in his laboratory, consumed by concern over his research and the consequences of his findings. He struggles with the fear that his discoveries related to artificial nourishment may lead to catastrophic disruptions in the natural order. As he contemplates warning the city''s leadership, he encounters Gustajo from the "Secret Office," who challenges his intentions and underscores the political tensions in their society regarding the shift to synthetic resources. The narrative sets the stage for an exploration of ethical dilemmas, personal responsibility, and the tension between progress and potential disaster as humanity relies increasingly on technology. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75109,500,'Reading ease score: 44.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75109,480);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75109,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75110,520,'"A History of Land Mammals in the Western Hemisphere" by William Berryman Scott is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the evolutionary history and geographical distribution of mammals in North and South America, exploring their development from ancient ancestors to the modern forms found today. The book is intended for both lay readers and zoologists, aiming to present complex paleontological concepts in an accessible manner.  The opening of the book introduces the origins and motivations behind its creation, highlighting the author''s personal experiences with fossil collecting during his youth, which sparked a lifelong fascination with the subject. It discusses the initial steps of investigating mammalian history, emphasizing the importance of understanding both geological and paleontological methods in reconstructing past environments and life forms. The text outlines the challenges of making this rich history comprehensible to a broader audience, setting the stage for a detailed exploration of mammalian evolution, their classifications, and the fossil evidence supporting these concepts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75110,500,'Reading ease score: 53.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75110,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75110,476);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75111,520,'"Memoirs of Dr. Joseph Priestley : To the year 1795, written by himself" is a historical account written in the early 19th century. The memoir centers around Dr. Joseph Priestley, a renowned intellectual and scientist of his time, chronicling his life experiences, personal beliefs, struggles, and contributions to the fields of religion and science. As the memoir unfolds, readers will gain insight into his upbringing, education, and the noteworthy pursuits that defined his influential career.  At the start of the memoir, Dr. Priestley reflects on his early life, recounting the significant influence of his family, particularly his mother and aunt, in shaping his values. He describes his childhood in Yorkshire, the loss of his mother, and his subsequent education in various disciplines, including theology and languages. Priestley illustrates his gradual transition from Calvinism to more liberal religious views as he encounters diverse opinions and experiences around him, leading to a rich intellectual journey characterized by ongoing inquiry and self-reflection. This opening portion sets the stage for an exploration of Priestley''s contributions to both philosophy and science, as he aims to promote virtue and piety throughout his narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75111,500,'Reading ease score: 52.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75111,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75111,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75112,520,'"The Air Splasher" by Richard Howells Watkins is a thrilling aviation adventure written in the late 1920s. This novel chronicles the daring exploits of King Horn, a stunt pilot known for his reckless flying and numerous crashes, as he grapples with the consequences of his death-defying career. The story likely explores themes of bravery, love, and the quest for self-identity amid the adrenaline-fueled world of aviation.  In "The Air Splasher," readers are introduced to King Horn, whose risky aerial performances captivate crowds while simultaneously endangering his life. After a particularly harrowing crash, he realizes that his reckless reputation may jeopardize his future as a pilot. The emotional core of the narrative unfolds as Horn develops deeper feelings for Lyle Tennant, the daughter of his employer. When faced with a life-threatening situation involving transporting a group of important passengers, including Lyle''s father, Horn''s skills are put to the ultimate test. His heroic actions not only solidify his place in aviation history but also lead him to confront his reckless self-image, revealing a newfound maturity and commitment to safer flying and to Lyle. The novel concludes with Horn earning respect and paving the way for a more stable life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75112,500,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75112,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75112,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75113,520,'"The Noise of the World" by Adriana Spadoni is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in an urban legal environment, focusing on themes of ethics and social justice as the characters navigate their professional and personal lives amidst conflicting ideals. The main character, Anne Mitchell, is a stenographer who grapples with her conscience and her place in the world, ultimately standing against the morally dubious actions of her employer.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to a heated discussion at a law office where Roger Barton challenges his superior, John Lowell, about their firm''s potential involvement in a morally corrupt case that would evict impoverished residents for the benefit of a gravel company. This scene establishes the conflict between idealism and practicality that continues to unfold as Anne, who observes the discussion, must choose between her job and her ethics. This vital moment sets the stage for her personal development and reflects her growing discontent with a life filled with deceit and compromise, ultimately leading to her resignation and the beginning of new paths in life alongside Roger. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75113,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75113,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75113,457);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75114,520,'"The New Air World: The Science of Meteorology Simplified" by Willis L. Moore is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work aims to make the complex field of meteorology understandable to a general audience, particularly for those interested in improving their understanding of weather phenomena and applications. The book serves both educational purposes for advanced pupils in public schools and for those simply seeking to become "weatherwise."  The opening of the book presents an introduction to meteorology, highlighting the author''s intent to demystify the science of the atmosphere. Moore emphasizes how little was known about atmospheric conditions at the time of the Pilgrims and aims to guide readers through the formation, composition, and function of Earth''s atmosphere as well as comparisons with other planetary atmospheres. He sets the stage for readers to explore weather phenomena such as storms, temperature variations, and the importance of understanding these elements in everyday life, thereby providing a foundation for the detailed explanations and scientific principles that will follow in the subsequent chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75114,500,'Reading ease score: 49.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75114,478);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75114,476);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75115,520,'"Merirosvojen aarre: Kertomus" by Georg Gärtner is a fictional adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in the midst of maritime escapades and focuses on a Dutch ship''s doctor who finds himself entangled in a world of pirates, treasure hunting, and danger. The narrative promises thrilling encounters as the protagonist navigates treacherous waters and the darker realms of human ambition while uncovering the secrets of a hidden treasure.  At the start of the tale, the protagonist, a Dutch ship''s doctor, is aboard the "Little Duc," which meets with a storm while navigating near the Bahamas. After the storm damages the ship, the crew approaches a nearby island for repairs, where they encounter a group of so-called fishermen who appear suspicious. Initially believing them to be benign, the doctor soon realizes they are actually pirates who have lured them into danger. As events unfold, the ship is attacked, set ablaze, and the doctor finds himself caught between survival and the allure of an ancient treasure, leading him into an uncertain alliance with the very crew that now poses a threat to his life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75115,500,'Reading ease score: 40.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75115,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75116,520,'"Muratti: Romaani" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the village of Barunéin, focusing on the Decherchi family, particularly around themes of familial ties, honor, and the hardships stemming from economic decline, all set against the backdrop of traditional Sardinian life. Key characters introduced include don Simone Decherchi, an aging nobleman, his troubled nephew Paulu, and Annesa, an adopted daughter whose loyalty and love become central to the unfolding drama.  The opening of the novel sets the stage on a Saturday evening, coinciding with the festival of Saint Basil, as two old men, don Simone and Cosimu Damianu, engage in conversation about the mysterious disappearance of Paulu, the latter''s son. The atmosphere is thick with tension and suspicion, as rumors swirl regarding familial discord and the boy''s fate. The scene introduces us to other residents of the household, including the sickly old man Zua and the maid Annesa, hinting at deeper family secrets and the economic decay that threatens their way of life. The dialogue depicts a world filled with superstition and moral struggles, foreshadowing the conflicts that will arise as Paulu navigates his responsibilities and relationships amid their diminishing fortunes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75116,500,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75116,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75116,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75117,520,'"Writing and Rewriting" by George Carver, Thomas A. Knott, and William S. Maulsby is a guide on the art of writing, published in the early 20th century. The book seeks to equip college students with fundamental writing skills, emphasizing correction and improvement through self-editing. It tackles various aspects of writing, including composition structure, clarity, grammar, and audience engagement, making it a practical resource for writers at any stage.  At the start of the work, the authors outline the critical reasons for learning to write effectively, presenting clear connections between writing skills and professional success. They argue that good writing not only reflects personal knowledge but also enhances the reader''s experience. Moreover, they introduce the concept of writing as a process involving planning, drafting, revising, and editing, reinforcing the idea that writing is not only about conveying thoughts but about the craft of communication itself. The opening chapter sets the stage for a comprehensive study that invites readers to engage deeply with the writing process. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75117,500,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75117,454);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75117,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75118,520,'"Christmas under three flags: Being memories of holiday festivities in the White House with ''Old Hickory,'' in the palace of H. R. H. Prince of Prussia, afterwards Emperor William I., and at the Alamo with the Alcalde’s daughter" by Mary Emily Donelson Wilcox is a historical account published in the early 20th century. This memoir captures the enchanting holiday traditions experienced by the author during significant moments in American and European history, primarily focusing on the festivities surrounding Christmas in notable locations such as the White House, the palace in Berlin, and the Alamo in Texas.   In the book, the author shares her treasured memories of Christmas celebrations that span across different cultures and settings. The narrative evokes nostalgia as it recounts Christmas with President Andrew Jackson and his family at the White House, depicting joyful gatherings filled with games, gifts, and tender moments. It then transitions to an ornate Christmas Tree event in Berlin under the royal family, emphasizing the elegance and charm of European traditions. Lastly, the story introduces the heartwarming tale of a Christmas celebration in the Alamo, featuring the Alcalde''s daughter and the significance of a blessed lamp signaling the joy and warmth of the holiday spirit. Throughout, themes of love, charity, and familial bonds are interwoven, offering readers a rich tapestry of Christmas customs across different cultural backgrounds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75118,500,'Reading ease score: 51.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75118,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75118,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75119,520,'"Report on the Geology of the Henry Mountains" by Grove Karl Gilbert is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This work focuses on the geological structure of the Henry Mountains, located in Southern Utah, and is based on field studies conducted during the years 1875 and 1876. It delves deep into the geological formations, rock series, and the intricate processes of geological uplift and erosion that characterize this unique mountain range.  At the start of the report, Gilbert discusses the historical context of the Henry Mountains, explaining how they were largely unexplored up until the late 19th century. He notes the contributions of earlier explorers, including Professor John Wesley Powell, who named the mountains. Gilbert describes his thorough examination of the region''s structure, highlighting the unique features of each individual mountain within the range and introducing the concept of laccolites—masses of igneous rock that intrude into other rock layers—describing their significance in understanding the geological history of the area. The opening portions set the stage for an in-depth scientific exploration, revealing the importance of the region for geological study and the complexities of its formations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75119,500,'Reading ease score: 56.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75119,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75119,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75120,520,'"Maehoe" by Murray Leinster is a dramatic narrative set in the Solomon Islands, likely written in the late 1920s. This novella intertwines themes of survival and cultural dynamics against a backdrop of colonial tensions. The story focuses on a white man, a native boy named Maehoe, and the complex interplay of fear and ambition within the nuanced relationships they navigate.  The plot centers around Gleason, a white man who, after a harrowing ordeal in the jungle, finds refuge at the plantation of Henderson, where he encounters Maehoe, a houseboy keen to join the Native Constabulary. As Henderson succumbs to illness, Gleason''s fears escalate, particularly concerning the potential wrath of a local chief named Sunaku. When a failed robbery leads to chaos among the plantation workers, Maehoe emerges as an unexpected protector, rallying against the attacking laborers with dynamite. Their relationship shifts dramatically as Maehoe''s motivations become clear, leading to a tragic climax where both characters confront their inner demons and the harsh realities of their world. Ultimately, the novella explores themes of fear, ambition, and the tragic consequences of cultural misunderstandings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75120,500,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75120,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75120,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75121,520,'"Who Were the Pilgrims?" by William T. Davis is a historical account written in the early 1880s. The book provides an exploration of the origins and journey of the Pilgrims, a group of Separatists who formed a distinct religious community in England, seeking a break from the Church of England and looking to establish a new life in America. It delves into the context of Puritanism and the Reformation that shaped their beliefs and actions.  The book outlines the historical and religious background leading to the Pilgrims'' migration, detailing key figures such as William Brewster, John Robinson, and William Bradford, who played significant roles in the formation of their congregation. It narrates their struggles against persecution in England, their eventual move to Holland to escape constrictive religious practices, and their painstaking efforts to secure a new home in the New World. The narrative portrays not only their determination for religious freedom but also their experiences and hardships during the voyage on the Mayflower and the establishment of their colony in Plymouth, emphasizing the impact they had on the development of American society and religion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75121,500,'Reading ease score: 50.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75121,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75121,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75122,520,'"Garibaldi, Vol. 1 (of 2) : (1807-1859)" by Giuseppe Guerzoni is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work serves as a biography of Giuseppe Garibaldi, a central figure in the unification of Italy, outlining his early life, military exploits, and profound influence on Italian history. The book promises to delve into Garibaldi’s character, exploring the complexities and nuances of his personality while also highlighting the pivotal events that shaped his legendary status.  The opening of the text provides a preface in which Guerzoni expresses his deep admiration for Garibaldi, reflecting on his personal experiences alongside the iconic leader. The author recounts his time spent with Garibaldi, from high-stakes military encounters to intimate moments on Caprera, emphasizing Garibaldi''s charisma and the intricate political landscape of 19th-century Italy. Guerzoni sets the stage for a comprehensive exploration of Garibaldi''s early life, beginning with his birth in Nice, and hints at the many challenges and triumphs that lay ahead in the narrative of a man destined for greatness. The emphasis on family, formative experiences, and the initial stirrings of rebellion against oppression create an engaging backdrop for the unfolding saga of Garibaldi. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75122,500,'Reading ease score: 27.4 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75122,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75122,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75123,520,'"Clara d''Ellébeuse: eli Erään menneitten aikojen nuoren tytön historia" by Francis Jammes is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around a young girl named Clara d''Ellébeuse, who navigates her thoughts and emotions while growing up in a richly detailed setting that blends family history, personal introspection, and a longing for connection both with her loved ones and the past.   At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Clara as she wakes up in her room, reflecting on her family, particularly her deceased uncle Joachim and his fiancée, Laure. The opening vividly portrays Clara''s daily life, her interactions with her mother, and her contemplative nature as she explores her surroundings, including a chapel that evokes deep religious feelings. Her thoughts traverse the historical weight of her family, especially concerning the mysterious relationships and events tied to her uncle. As Clara''s emotional landscape unfolds, she exhibits signs of curiosity, guilt, and a desire for purity, setting the stage for her journey of self-discovery against the backdrop of familial legacies and social expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75123,500,'Reading ease score: 44.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75123,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75123,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75124,520,'"Az első fecske, és egyéb elbeszélések" by Ferenc Herczeg is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The stories explore themes of human relationships, societal norms, and the intricacies of love and duty. The opening tale introduces Mária, a young and determined doctor who confronts the complexities of her professional and personal life, setting the stage for reflections on gender roles and human emotions.  The opening of the story presents a tense and dramatic scene where Mária is called to assist a wounded nobleman, Gróf Risztory, who has just survived an apparent suicide attempt. As she tends to his injuries, a deep and insightful conversation ensues about societal expectations, personal integrity, and self-worth. Mária''s assertiveness and independence are contrasted with Gróf Risztory''s privileged yet troubled life, leading to exchanges that highlight the evolving gender dynamics of the time. The initial interaction sparks a complex relationship that navigates themes of love, respect, and emancipation, demonstrating Herczeg’s keen insight into the human condition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75124,500,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75124,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75124,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75125,520,'"Eleanor''s Victory" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century." The story centers around Eleanor Vane, a young and innocent girl navigating the complexities of life and her relationship with her estranged father, George Mowbray Vane. The book explores themes of family, ambition, and the impact of past decisions, reflecting the societal norms and expectations of the time.  "At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Eleanor as she arrives in Dieppe, France, on a steamer." She expresses excitement about seeing her father once again, having traveled from boarding school in Brixton. The narrative reveals her strong bond with him, despite his troubled past and financial struggles. As they reunite, George Vane displays both pride and vulnerability, shaped by a history of squandered fortunes and lost familial connections, introducing readers to a complex dynamic that sets the stage for Eleanor''s journey ahead. The scene serves to establish the characters'' circumstances and hints at the challenges they may face as they seek a brighter future amidst the shadows of their past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75125,500,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75125,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75126,520,'"SAB" by Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda is a fictional novel written in the mid-19th century. The story centers around the character of Sab, a mulatto slave in Cuba, exploring themes of identity, social class, and the complexities of human emotions in a society marked by racial hierarchy and injustice. The book provides a powerful lens into the life of its protagonist as he navigates his existence in a world that marginalizes him, while also reflecting on the relationships that shape his identity.  The opening of "SAB" introduces the reader to several key characters and sets the stage for the socio-political landscape of Cuba during the time. A young man on horseback approaches an area known as Bellavista, where he encounters Sab, the mulatto slave who serves as the estate''s overseer. Their conversation reveals Sab''s mixed heritage and the complexities of his existence as someone with noble aspirations who is shackled by the realities of slavery. The narrative hints at Sab''s deeper feelings towards his childhood friend, Carlota, the daughter of his master, further emphasizing the themes of love, longing, and social constraints that will unfold throughout the story. The atmosphere is rich with vivid descriptions of the Cuban landscape, inviting the reader into a world filled with natural beauty and human struggle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75126,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sab_(novel) https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sab_(novela)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75126,500,'Reading ease score: 48.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75126,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75126,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75127,520,'"Suomalaiset Viron vapaussodassa" by Vilho Helanen is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The work explores the involvement of Finnish forces in Estonia''s struggle for independence during the turbulent period surrounding the Estonian War of Independence and the Russian Revolution. Helanen''s narrative likely covers the coordinated military efforts, political developments, and the broader historical context that led to the formation of a Finnish volunteer detachment to assist Estonia.  At the start of the book, the author sets the stage by providing an overview of Estonia''s early history, detailing the beginnings of the Estonian people and their interactions with neighboring nations. Helanen highlights the struggles faced by Estonians against various conquerors, emphasizing their aspirations for independence. The introduction serves to contextualize the subsequent events during the independence struggle, particularly the Finnish support that emerged amid the chaos of the Russian Revolution and its implications for Estonian self-determination. This foundation paves the way for an examination of the military actions, local responses, and the evolution of Estonian nationalism that define the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75127,500,'Reading ease score: 24.2 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75127,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75127,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75128,520,'"Königin Heimat" by Rudolf Greinz is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in a picturesque alpine valley, capturing the struggles between the harshness of nature and the vibrancy of rural life. The protagonist, Veit Galler, is introduced as a robust character returning to his homeland after years away, embodying themes of longing, love, and the ties that bind one to their roots.  The opening of the novel presents a vivid depiction of an unusual winter scene occurring during what should be spring, setting a tone of contrast and expectation. As nature battles against the unexpected frost, we are introduced to various characters including Veit Galler, who reflects on his past as he navigates through the valley. The narrative beautifully captures his emotional state as he approaches his home, filled with memories and a sense of nostalgia for his younger days with Notburg, his wife. The local environment and community dynamics come alive through colorful depictions of the villagers, children, and the spirit of the land, indicating a rich tapestry of life, love, and conflict that will unfold throughout the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75128,500,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75128,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75128,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75129,520,'"Lotte civili" by Edmondo De Amicis is a collection of essays and writings on social and political issues, likely composed in the early 20th century. This work reflects the author''s engagement with socialist ideas and his advocacy for justice and societal reform. It presents the perspectives of various characters as they grapple with themes of inequality, class struggle, and the moral responsibilities of individuals within society.  The opening portion of the text serves as a preface that outlines the motivations behind De Amicis''s foray into socialist thought and the political climate of the time. It introduces Alberto Bianchini, a well-educated man turned literary teacher, who encounters new radical ideas through interactions with a socialist newspaper and individuals immersed in the movement. The narrative describes Bianchini’s struggles with his artistic ambitions and his awakening to social justice, as he discovers the stark realities faced by the working class. This initial exploration sets the stage for a deeper examination of the social dynamics in Italy and the transformative journey of the characters as they confront the injustices around them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75129,500,'Reading ease score: 36.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75129,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75129,482);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75130,520,'"Tex: A Chapter in the Life of Alexander Teixeira de Mattos" by Stephen McKenna is a biographical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the life and contributions of Alexander Teixeira de Mattos, a renowned translator known for his work in English translations from various languages including French, German, and Dutch. It interweaves his professional achievements with insights into his personal character, revealing a complex figure who balanced modesty with a love for life and laughter.  The opening of the book establishes Teixeira as a pivotal figure in the world of translation, celebrated for his skill and depth. It introduces his personality, portraying him as a humble and humorous individual, keenly aware of both the value of his work and the joy he finds in friendship and life. Throughout the initial chapter, McKenna hints at Teixeira''s literary friendships and the poignant moments of his later life, particularly during the war and his ongoing struggles with health. This sets the stage for a narrative that promises not just an exploration of Teixeira''s career, but also a tribute to his enduring spirit as seen through the eyes of a devoted friend. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75130,500,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75130,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75130,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75131,520,'"From the West to the West: Across the Plains to Oregon" by Abigail Scott Duniway is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This narrative chronicles the experiences and challenges faced by a frontier family as they prepare to leave their home in Illinois for a new life in Oregon. The text reflects the realities of pioneer life, touching upon themes of family, adventure, and the pursuit of a better future amidst the backdrop of societal changes and personal struggles.  The opening of the work introduces us to the Ranger family, particularly focusing on John and Annie Ranger, who plan to leave their established life for the uncharted territories of Oregon. As John shares the news of their impending move, Annie expresses her fears about the difficult journey and the impact of leaving their aging parents behind. Their conversation encapsulates the tension between adventure and safety, the aspirations of the American West, and the emotional toll on a family facing such profound change. The scenes depict not only their practical preparations but also the emotional upheaval as they grapple with their decision. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75131,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75131,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75131,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75132,520,'"Selected Papers on Hysteria and Other Psychoneuroses" by Sigmund Freud is a scientific publication likely written in the late 19th century. This collection features a range of Freud''s studies and insights into the complexities of hysteria and psychoneuroses, focusing particularly on their psychological mechanisms and treatments. It is geared towards medical professionals, mental health practitioners, and those interested in the evolving field of psychoanalysis, providing foundational understandings of hysteria’s symptoms and therapeutic approaches.  The opening portion of the work includes a translator''s preface that discusses the challenges involved in translating Freud''s writings and emphasizes the importance of context for understanding his theories. Following this, the first chapter delves into the psychic mechanisms underlying hysterical phenomena, detailing observations from several cases where accidental traumas trigger severe symptoms. Freud describes how these symptoms can be symbolic representations of repressed thoughts and emotions, necessitating profound psychological exploration to uncover and resolve the underlying issues, highlighting the significance of memory and emotional states in the manifestation of hysteria. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75132,500,'Reading ease score: 44.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75132,469);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75132,441);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75133,520,'"El conde de Candespina" by Escosura is a historical novel written during the early 19th century. The story unfolds in a tumultuous period of the 12th century, exploring the intricate political and romantic entanglements surrounding Doña Urraca, the queen of Castilla, who finds herself imprisoned by her husband, Alfonso of Aragón. The narrative centers on Don Gómez Salvadórez, the heroic Conde de Candespina, who embodies the ideals of chivalry and loyalty as he embarks on a perilous mission to rescue the queen from captivity.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the despairing queen, Doña Urraca, as she laments her captivity in the castle of Castellar, where she feels abandoned by her loyal subjects. Her faithful lady-in-waiting, Leonor, attempts to comfort her and believes that there could still be a loyal knight who will rescue her. We also learn of the deep feelings Don Gómez harbors for the queen and the plans brewing amongst the nobles to unite Castilla by marrying her to him. As the action progresses, Don Gómez decides to take matters into his own hands, rallying a small band of loyal followers to infiltrate the castle and effect Doña Urraca''s escape, setting the stage for a gripping tale of love, betrayal, and valor that lies ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75133,500,'Reading ease score: 40.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75133,447);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75133,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75134,520,'"El conde de Candespina" by Escosura is a historical novel written in the early 19th century. It revolves around the complex political and romantic dynamics of medieval Spain, specifically focusing on Doña Urraca, the Queen of Castilla, and the titular character, the Count of Candespina, alongside other significant figures like Don Pedro de Lara and Hernando de Olea. The narrative explores themes of loyalty, power struggles, and the personal sacrifices made in the name of love and duty.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to a dramatic situation where Doña Urraca has escaped from the clutches of her husband with the help of the Count of Candespina and his loyal men. The scene sets a tone of anticipation and tension as the queen expresses her gratitude towards the count, sparking jealousy in her other supporters. As her party prepares to march away from Soria amid the excitement and celebration, we also glimpse the underlying political friction that will define the royal court''s dynamics, especially concerning alliances and rivalries. The narrative captures the valiant display of the soldiers while hinting at future conflicts, both external and internal, amidst the backdrop of the tumultuous history of Castilla and Aragón. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75134,500,'Reading ease score: 56.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75134,447);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75134,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75135,520,'"Az aruvimi erdő titka és egyéb szatirák" by Ferenc Molnár is a collection of satirical short stories written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around Tisztességes Lajos, a humble and principled state clerk, who is entangled in a web of corruption and intrigue involving his financially troublesome employer and the whims of bureaucratic practice. The work promises humor interwoven with social critique, depicting the absurdities of bureaucracy through charming and relatable characters.  The opening of the narrative introduces us to Tisztességes Lajos, a state bureaucrat returning home to his numerous children after a long day at work. Shortly after his arrival, Lajos receives an unexpected financial gift meant to bribe him, creating a moral dilemma. Conflicted, he resolves to return the money, demonstrating his integrity. As he sets off, the stage is set for exploration into the ridiculousness of government procedures and the broader implications of corruption within societal structures, interspersed with personal anecdotes from Lajos’s life. Through this beginning, Molnár skillfully hints at a humorous yet poignant journey through the indignities of the bureaucratic life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75135,500,'Reading ease score: 62.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75135,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75135,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75136,520,'"La orfaneta de Menargues; o, Catalunya agonisant: Novela histórica" by Antoni de Bofarull is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative is set in a tumultuous period of Catalonia, exploring themes of power struggles and human resilience amidst societal upheaval. The story begins to unfold around the characters of a mother and her young daughter, Blanqueta, highlighting their struggles and the heavy impact of civil conflict on their lives.  The opening of the novel immerses the reader into an atmosphere marked by tension and uncertainty. It begins with a reflection on the past glory of Catalonia, setting up a historical backdrop against which the personal stories of characters unfold. The narrative introduces us to Blanqueta and her mother, whose domestic life is filled with warmth and innocence, contrasting sharply with the looming dangers of warfare outside their home. The mother’s internal conflicts and concerns about their safety are palpable, as she prepares to embark on a journey that could change their lives forever. As the scene unfolds, a sense of dread and anticipation builds, suggesting that the characters are caught in the midst of a greater struggle that foreshadows the challenges they will face. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75136,500,'https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_orfaneta_de_Menargues_o_Catalunya_agonisant',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75136,500,'Reading ease score: 60.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75136,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75136,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75137,520,'"Suffered in Vain: or, A Plaything of Fate" by Bertha M. Clay is a novel likely written during the late 19th century. The story revolves around complex themes of love, fate, sacrifice, and societal expectations, focusing on characters whose lives intricately intertwine amidst dramatic revelations and emotional turmoil.  The opening of the narrative introduces a tranquil and genteel setting in a summer twilight at Porchester Square. Central to the initial chapters are three main characters: the impoverished Leonardo Gilardoni, who once served as a valet, the enchanting and seemingly aloof Lucia Guiscardini, and Captain Paul Desfrayne, who is caught in a pivotal life situation tied to an unexpected inheritance. The plot sets in motion as Desfrayne learns of a will that not only names him as a trustee but intriguingly pairs him with the young heiress, Lois Turquand, highlighting layers of emotional conflict and the burdens of social expectations against the backdrop of tragic love and chance encounters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75137,500,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75137,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75138,520,'"The Girlhood of Queen Victoria, Vol. 1 (of 2): A Selection from Her Majesty''s Diaries" edited by Viscount Esher is a historical account published in the early 20th century. This work captures the early years of Queen Victoria through her personal journals, detailing her life from 1832 to 1840 as she navigates the complexities of royal upbringing and the societal expectations of her time. The primary focus is on the experiences of the young Victoria as she embarks on various royal progresses across England.  At the start of this account, we are introduced to thirteen-year-old Victoria as she begins her journal, describing her journey from Kensington Palace to Wales. Her entries reflect a mixture of youthful innocence and royal duty, detailing the beautiful landscapes encountered, her interactions with various nobility, and the peculiarities of royal life. As she travels, Victoria observes the warmth of the people and the striking contrasts of her privileged existence against the backdrop of a rapidly changing British society. Throughout this opening portion, we see glimpses of the young Queen''s character developing amidst her formative experiences, setting the stage for her later reign. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75138,500,'Reading ease score: 79.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75138,449);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75138,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75139,520,'"Garibaldi, Vol. 2 (of 2) : (1860-1882)" by Giuseppe Guerzoni is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This volume delves into the pivotal years of Garibaldi''s life, focusing on his contributions to the unification of Italy during the tumultuous period from 1860 to 1882. The narrative likely highlights key events, political struggles, and Garibaldi''s character as a revolutionary leader.  The opening of this volume sets the stage for Garibaldi''s involvement in the insurrection in Sicily and the subsequent military actions that contributed to the unification of Italy. Initially, the narrative examines the political landscape following the return of the Count of Cavour to power and the resulting alliances and conflicts surrounding Italian territorial aspirations. As Gar (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75139,500,'Reading ease score: 31.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75139,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75139,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75140,520,'"Pako Egyptiin: Romaani" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story begins with Giuseppe de Nicola, a retired primary school teacher, who embarks on a journey after teaching for forty years. Through Giuseppe''s reflections on his past and his decision to travel, the narrative hints at themes of nostalgia, lost connections, and the stark contrast between dreams and reality.  At the start of the novel, Giuseppe de Nicola prepares for his long-desired journey, spurred by memories of his adopted son and a yearning for connection with a family that has moved away. As he boards a train, the excitement of new experiences is tempered by feelings of loneliness and uncertainty about the future. Upon arrival at a small station without a welcoming party, he faces the overwhelming emptiness of his surroundings, deepening his sense of isolation. However, he soon meets his granddaughter Ola, sparking a bond that stirs his heart and gives promise to the new chapter of his life. This opening segment sets the stage for an exploration of familial relationships and the complexities of human emotion as Giuseppe navigates his new reality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75140,500,'Reading ease score: 41.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75140,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75141,520,'"Lumivuoren kotka: Kertomus Trappien elämästä" by Paul Grundmann is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story appears to be set in the 19th century and revolves around the lives of a trio of trappers in the wilds of Colorado. It explores themes of adventure, danger, and the struggles of life in the untamed wilderness, particularly focusing on the experiences of the main characters, Tom, a seasoned trapper, and his young companion, Francois.  The beginning of the novel introduces readers to a summer day in 1846 as Tom and his two trapping companions, Pedro and Francois, set up camp by the Rio de Puerco in Colorado. They are depicted preparing meals and discussing the perils of their location, which is known to be inhabited by the Apache tribe. Tom, the older and more experienced trapper, takes on a protective role towards Francois, who yearns for adventure despite his inexperience. The narrative builds suspense as they encounter the sights and sounds of the wilderness, including a chase involving a deer and wolves, which sets the stage for future conflicts with both wildlife and potential threats from Indigenous tribes. The camaraderie among the men is emphasized, alongside the dangers they must navigate in their pursuit of survival. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75141,500,'Reading ease score: 40.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75141,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75141,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75142,520,'"Merrylips" by Beulah Marie Dix is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a lively young girl named Sybil Venner, affectionately nicknamed Merrylips by her family due to her cheerful disposition. Set in the idyllic English countryside of Wiltshire two centuries prior, the narrative captures her spirited childhood at Walsover Hall as she grapples with the expectations of being a girl, contrasting them against her adventurous yearnings often reserved for boys, particularly in the context of her family''s involvement in the tumultuous political landscape of their time.  At the start of "Merrylips," we are introduced to the titular character who dreams of adventure beyond the confines of her family''s estate. She is depicted as the youngest and most adored child in her large family, joyfully engaging in wholesome activities like playing with her brothers or exploring the extensive grounds of their home. However, as Merrylips confronts her mother’s strict expectations of femininity, the story foreshadows her longing to break free from these societal norms. The opening chapters set the stage for Merrylips’ journey as she navigates familial love, the tension of impending war, and her desire to be brave and adventurous, hinting at the transformational experiences that lie ahead in her life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75142,500,'Reading ease score: 89.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75142,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75142,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75143,520,'"Világ ura" by Jules Verne is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book embarks on an adventure set against the backdrop of the Great Eyry, a mountain in North Carolina, where strange phenomena and rumors of volcanic activity begin to disturb the local population. The protagonist, John Strock, a sharp-witted detective from Washington, is enlisted to investigate these disturbances, promising a compelling mix of mystery and scientific discovery.  At the start of the story, the geographical setting of the Great Eyry is introduced alongside details about the mountain range''s history and recent unsettling occurrences, such as steam and flames emerging from it. As Strock prepares for his investigation, he meets with local authorities, all of whom express curiosity and concern regarding the potential dangers posed by the mountain. The narrative builds suspense as it intertwines elements of natural mystery with human trepidation about the unknown, setting the stage for an expedition that seeks to uncover the secrets of the Great Eyry and alleviate the fears of the surrounding communities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75143,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_of_the_World_(novel) https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Vil%C3%A1g_Ura',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75143,500,'Reading ease score: 64.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75143,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75143,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75144,520,'"A Boys'' Life of Booker T. Washington" by Walter Clinton Jackson is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book chronicles the life of Booker T. Washington, an influential African American leader and educator, tracing his journey from slavery to becoming a prominent figure in American history. It aims to inspire young readers, particularly Black youth, by highlighting Washington''s significant contributions to education and civil rights.  The opening of the book sets the stage for Washington''s life story, detailing his early childhood experiences as a slave on a Virginia plantation. Through vivid descriptions, it portrays the harsh realities of his upbringing, including poverty, hard labor, and the absence of formal education. Despite these challenges, the narrative emphasizes Washington''s determination to gain knowledge and improve his circumstances, introducing themes of resilience, ambition, and a profound love for learning that would shape his future endeavors. The beginning effectively establishes the context for Washington''s incredible journey, providing a glimpse of what will inspire and empower readers in their pursuit of education and self-improvement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75144,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75144,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75144,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75145,520,'"Human Nature and the Social Order" by Charles Horton Cooley is a sociological treatise written in the early 20th century. The work interrogates the intricate relationship between individuals and society, aiming to dispel the common notion of their opposition, illustrating instead that they are interconnected components of the same reality. Cooley emphasizes the fundamental unity of human life, arguing that individuals cannot be fully understood without acknowledging their social contexts.  At the start of the book, Cooley outlines his perspective on the relationship between society and the individual, positing that both are perspectives on a singular phenomenon. He critiques the fallacy of viewing them as separate or opposing forces, insisting that this misunderstanding arises from human perception rather than core realities. Through various examples, he illustrates how societal structures shape individual behaviors, and conversely, how individuals collectively influence the broader social order, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of themes such as choice, suggestion, and the role of personal ideas within social contexts in later chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75145,500,'Reading ease score: 49.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75145,482);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75146,520,'"The Eames-Erskine Case: A Detective Story" by A. Fielding is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the enigmatic circumstances surrounding the sudden death of Reginald Eames, found in a hotel wardrobe under suspicious conditions. Chief Inspector Pointer from Scotland Yard is the main character who seeks to unravel the mystery, guided by clues left behind and the testimonies of various hotel staff and guests.  At the start of the tale, Chief Inspector Pointer and his team respond to a report from the manager of the Enterprise Hotel regarding a potential crime scene in room number fourteen, where Eames'' body is discovered. The opening sets up a gripping scene filled with intrigue as the characters, including the manager and an American sub-editor named Mr. Beale, reveal their reactions to the grim discovery. Pointer begins his investigation by scrutinizing evidence and examining the deceased''s belongings, while also questioning the hotel staff regarding Eames'' behavior and associates leading up to his death. The complexity of the case deepens as details emerge about Eames’ past and contradictory witness accounts, hinting that appearances can be deceptive and that there may be more than one party involved in the ominous circumstances surrounding Eames’ demise. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75146,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75146,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75147,520,'"The Collected Stories of Elisabeth Sanxay Holding from Munsey''s Magazine" is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The stories explore complex themes of love, marriage, and the intricacies of human relationships, often through the lens of modern societal expectations. The opening story, "The Married Man," features the troubled marriage between Marian and Andrew, delving into their emotional struggles and the stark realities of their respective desires and dissatisfaction with conventional domestic life.  At the start of "The Married Man," readers are introduced to Marian, a devoted wife, who grapples with her neglectful husband, Andrew, on their tenth wedding anniversary. As the narrative unfolds, Andrew expresses his discontent with the constraints of marriage, which he views as a stifling trap. The tension escalates when Andrew proposes living separately, asserting that both can still maintain affection while pursuing individual freedom. Marian''s initial acceptance leads her to a moment of heartache, revealing the deeper complexities of their partnership. Meanwhile, Andrew''s ensuing interactions with various women hint at his struggle to navigate his new reality, marking the beginning of an exploration of love''s intricacies and challenges in a changing world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75147,500,'Reading ease score: 84.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75147,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75147,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75148,520,'"Boy Bird House Architecture" by Leon H. Baxter is a practical guide on building birdhouses, written in the early 20th century, specifically around the year 1920. This book serves as a manual for young bird enthusiasts and aspiring architects, focusing on enchanting native birds by constructing suitable nesting homes. It also aims to instill a sense of responsibility in children regarding wildlife conservation.  The content of the book is informative and instructional, detailing various types of birds, the specific birdhouses they prefer, and the materials and techniques required to build these houses. Baxter discusses the importance of providing proper support for bird populations, highlighting the economic and environmental benefits of birds in controlling pests. With practical illustrations and specifications, he guides readers through building birdhouses tailored for specific species, emphasizing the aesthetic and functional aspects to encourage a thriving bird community. Additionally, the book promotes the idea of community engagement through school competitions and initiatives to create birdhouses, fostering skills in craftsmanship while also nurturing an appreciation for nature. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75148,500,'Reading ease score: 69.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75148,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75148,425);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75149,520,'"American Boys Afloat: or, Cruising in the Orient" by Oliver Optic is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story continues the travels and adventures of young millionaire Louis Belgrave and his steadfast friend Felix McGavonty, as they engage in a sea expedition alongside a group of fellow American boys, dubbed "The Big Four." Their journey takes them on an educational and adventurous cruise through various exotic locations, bringing them into contact with both thrilling experiences and perilous encounters.  At the start of the novel, the boys, including Louis and Felix, are on the steam-yacht Guardian-Mother, which they own. They soon discover a familiar little steam-yacht named Salihé and are keen to learn about its current owner and history. After a humorous exchange with the yacht''s captain, Giles Chickworth, they decide to charter the Salihé for a moonlight excursion. However, their plans take a turn when they encounter smugglers during their outing, leading to a confrontation that finds the boys captured and locked in the cabin of the Salihé. The opening portion sets the stage for a blend of adventure, camaraderie, and moral dilemmas as the boys resolve to reclaim their freedom and thwart illegal activities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75149,500,'Reading ease score: 77.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75149,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75149,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75150,520,'"X-ray, violet ray, and other rays: With their use in modern medicine" by Maynard Shipley is a scientific publication written during the early 20th century, specifically in the 1920s. This work explores the various applications of X-rays and other types of rays in modern medicine, emphasizing their significance in diagnostics and treatment. The book likely covers the historical context, discovery, and evolving technologies surrounding these forms of radiation, as well as their implications for health and disease management.  Throughout the book, Shipley discusses a range of topics related to the uses of X-rays, including their everyday applications, therapeutic capabilities, and the discovery of their effects on human health. He explains how X-rays serve critical roles in successful cancer treatments, improve diagnostic methods, and underscore the risks faced by early radiologists. The text integrates both historical and contemporary examples, illustrating how X-rays have transformed medical practices, from identifying tumors to analyzing metals and even aiding in the detection of smuggled goods. Shipley concludes with a reflection on the immense potential and challenges posed by these powerful rays in the medical field. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75150,500,'Reading ease score: 58.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75150,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75150,475);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75151,520,'"Marianna: Romaani" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the early 20th century." The story revolves around Marianna Sirca, who inherits property from her wealthy uncle following his death. As she navigates her new life, she confronts her past and her feelings toward her former servant, Simone Sole, who has transformed from a subservient boy into a complex character with ambitions of his own. The novel explores themes of social status, personal identity, and the consequences of familial ties against the backdrop of Sardinian culture.  "The opening of the novel introduces us to Marianna as she recuperates in a cattle farm in the midst of Sardinia''s countryside, having taken time away from the stress caused by caring for her ailing uncle." In the lush setting, she begins to regain her strength but is still shadowed by her past and her unique upbringing, where obedience to her guardians has defined her existence. As Marianna reflects on her childhood, the narrative sets the stage for her encounter with Simone, signaling a shift in their dynamic. The opening establishes a rich emotional landscape filled with nostalgia, personal conflicts, and an anticipation of change, as she finds herself back in familiar territory, stirred by memories and new possibilities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75151,500,'Reading ease score: 43.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75151,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75151,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75152,520,'"Kokemukseni vakoojana" by Baden-Powell of Gilwell is a military memoir written in the early 20th century. The text reflects on the author''s extensive experiences as a spy and scout throughout various military campaigns, particularly during the Boer War. The central theme revolves around espionage—its tactics, significance, and the misconceptions surrounding spies, as the author aims to provide insights from his firsthand experiences in the field.  The opening of the memoir introduces readers to Baden-Powell’s early life and military career, detailing his rise through the ranks during conflicts in places like India and South Africa. He recounts significant events such as his defense of Mafeking during the Boer War, where he gained fame as a skilled and courageous leader. The author also emphasizes the challenges and dangers faced by spies, arguing against the negative stereotypes often associated with them. He discusses different types of espionage activities and the strategic importance of intelligence in warfare, laying a foundation for the themes explored in the rest of the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75152,500,'Reading ease score: 29.0 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75152,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75152,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75153,520,'"The Little Grey Lamb, and Other Christmas Poems" by Herbert H. Gowen is a collection of Christmas-themed poetry written in the early 20th century. This book offers a spiritual and reflective exploration of Christmas stories, invoking themes of love, redemption, and divine grace. Through various poems, Gowen aims to capture the essence of the Christmas spirit and its significance to humanity.  The collection includes several poems that reinterpret the Nativity story with fresh perspectives. Starting with "The Little Grey Lamb," it tells the tale of a lamb who yearns for purity and finds it through the presence of the Christ Child. Other poems, like "Jerusalem, 1917," juxtapose the themes of war with the quest for peace and divine presence. Each piece evokes emotions connected with the Christmas season, touching on topics such as hope, sacrifice, and the joy of giving. Overall, Gowen''s work invites readers into a contemplative journey that emphasizes the importance of faith and charity during the Christmas period. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75153,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75153,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75153,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75154,520,'"Silken Threads" by Wilhelmina Stitch is a collection of poems written in the late 1920s. The book encapsulates a variety of themes and emotions, reflecting on everyday life, relationships, and the beauty of nature. The work combines lighthearted verses with deeper reflections, providing readers with an opportunity to ponder the simple joys and complexities inherent in human experience.  The poems in "Silken Threads" traverse a range of subjects, including childhood memories, the warmth of family, the beauty of nature, and the essence of friendship. Through charming imagery and relatable expressions, Stitch captures the joys of life, from the tender moments shared by parents and children to the delightful simplicity found in nature. The collection invites introspection and appreciation for the little things, emphasizing that happiness often resides in life''s small, overlooked details. Overall, the book serves as a gentle reminder of the joys and challenges we navigate in our daily lives, celebrating the rich tapestry of human emotions and experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75154,500,'Reading ease score: 90.9 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75154,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75154,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75155,520,'"Silver Linings" by Wilhelmina Stitch is a collection of poems published in the late 1920s. The book primarily explores themes of optimism, resilience, and the beauty found in everyday life. Through its verses, it encourages readers to embrace joy and find comfort in life''s small pleasures, reflecting a mindset typical of the interwar period when many sought hope and positivity amidst the uncertainties of the time.  The poems within "Silver Linings" delve into a variety of subjects, often personifying elements of nature and emotions. For instance, pieces like "Song of Lovely Things" celebrate the simple treasures of life, while "To One Who Sighed" reassures readers to accept their unique gifts and find contentment. The collection features vivid imagery, heartfelt reflections, and a tone that radiates warmth and kindness. Themes of love, friendship, labor, and the changing seasons resonate throughout the verses, reminding readers that even in moments of adversity, there are ample reasons to find beauty and joy. Overall, this book offers a gentle reminder to appreciate life''s inherent goodness and approach challenges with a positive outlook. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75155,500,'Reading ease score: 89.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75155,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75155,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75156,520,'"Where Sunlight Falls" by Wilhelmina Stitch is a collection of poetry published in the late 1920s. The book captures a range of emotions and reflections on life, nature, and human experiences. Through lyrical verse, Stitch explores themes of hope, resilience, beauty, and the poignant moments that define our journeys.  The collection is rich with imagery and vibrant descriptions that evoke the seasons and the natural world, alongside meditations on personal growth and relationships. Each poem serves as a thoughtful commentary on various aspects of life, including friendship, love, adversity, and the simple joys found in everyday moments. From the playful tone in verses like "At A Dog''s Home" to the profound insights in "Failure," the work resonates with readers who appreciate the beauty of language and the depth of human experience. Ultimately, "Where Sunlight Falls" invites readers to find light and hope even amidst life''s inevitable challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75156,500,'Reading ease score: 89.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75156,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75156,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75157,520,'"The Bishop Murder Case" by S. S. Van Dine is a murder mystery novel written in the late 1920s. The story follows Philo Vance, an astute amateur investigator who is called upon to unravel a bizarre murder that captivates the public''s attention. Set against the backdrop of New York City, the case revolves around the peculiar death of a man named Joseph Cochrane Robin, known as "Cock Robin," a champion archer found dead with an arrow through his heart. As Vance delves into the investigation, a web of intrigue involving love rivalries and cryptic messages emerges, setting the stage for a captivating whodunnit.  The opening of "The Bishop Murder Case" introduces us to Philo Vance, who has just returned to New York after a winter in Switzerland. He''s eager to resume his literary pursuits, but his plans are interrupted by a phone call from John F.-X. Markham, the District Attorney, regarding a shocking new murder that bears hidden connections to an infamous nursery rhyme. Vance''s initial idleness turns to excitement as he learns of Robin''s death, which is not just peculiar due to the method but also because of the strange circumstances surrounding it. The narrative sets the tone for a compelling investigation filled with logical deductions, character dynamics among a group of mathematicians and socialites, and the clever use of literary allusions, creating an engaging environment for the reader as they anticipate the unearthing of dark secrets. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75157,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Bishop_Murder_Case',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75157,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75157,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75158,520,'"Halikon hakoniskat: Joulutapakuvaus" by Iida Heinonen and Niilo Kallio is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The text captures traditional Finnish Christmas customs as recounted by Ida Heinonen, who shares vivid memories of celebrations in her childhood home in Halikko during the late 19th century. This work aims to preserve the cultural heritage and practices associated with Christmas festivities in a rural Finnish context.  The opening of the book introduces the setting and characters in a lively and engaging manner, painting a picture of a peasant household bustling with preparations for Christmas. As family members interact, they discuss the tasks ahead, such as gathering ingredients and setting up decorations. The dialogue is rich with local dialect, emphasizing the authenticity of the narration. Through the characters'' exchanges, the reader gets a glimpse of the close-knit community and the familial bonds that are reinforced during the holiday season. Themes of memory, tradition, and the joy of celebration are prevalent as the recounting unfolds, immersing the reader in the warmth of Finnish Christmas customs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75158,500,'Reading ease score: 74.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75158,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75158,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75159,520,'"Niskureita: Historiallinen romaani Kustaa Vaasan viime vuosilta" by Lauri Soini is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative is set during the final years of King Gustav Vasa''s reign, portraying the societal and political tensions of the time. The story explores themes of defiance against authority, local governance, and community life, focusing on characters like Henrik Pakila and his family as they navigate the challenges posed by royal decrees and the advent of unusual outsiders, including gypsies.  At the start of the novel, the protagonist, Henrik Pakila, witnesses a confrontation between Mikael, a schoolmaster, and a royal messenger who demands young scholars for the king''s service. This scene sets the stage for exploring authority and rebellion, as Mikael stands firm against the royal request, prioritizing the needs of his community. The opening also introduces Henrik’s children, particularly Marketta and her brother, as they show interest in the arrival of gypsies. The narrative foreshadows conflicts between tradition and change, highlighting the characters'' relationships and aspirations amid the backdrop of a society in flux. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75159,500,'Reading ease score: 42.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75159,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75159,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75160,520,'"Kuoleman uhalla" by Eleanor M. Ingram is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around intense automobile racing competitions, featuring the main character Ralph Stanton, a daring and skillful driver known for his remarkable talents on the racetrack. The narrative delves into themes of bravery, competition, and the personal dynamics between characters involved in high-stakes racing.  The beginning of the novel introduces a tense race setting where Stanton is preparing to participate in a 24-hour competition. The stakes are raised when his original mechanic collapses, prompting Stanton to urgently seek a replacement to avoid disqualification. The chapter highlights the atmosphere of excitement and danger surrounding the race as spectators gather, and Stanton''s determination to win despite the odds becomes evident. Amidst the chaos, a new, young mechanic named Floyd steps forward to assist him, setting the stage for their evolving relationship throughout the race and beyond. The opening sets a thrilling tone for the challenges and rivalries that will unfold as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75160,500,'Reading ease score: 44.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75160,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75160,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75161,520,'"The Book of the American Indian" by Hamlin Garland is a collection of narratives written in the early 20th century that explores the lives, cultures, and struggles of Native Americans, particularly during the period of their confinement to reservations. Through vivid storytelling, Garland seeks to bridge understanding between the two cultures, portraying the emotional depth and resilience of Indigenous peoples as they navigate the conflicts and transformations brought by Western encroachment.  At the start of the book, the narrative focuses on the Indian Agency in Darlington, depicting a mundane and seemingly bleak environment that serves as the backdrop for the cultural clash between the Cheyenne tribe and white settlers. The opening chapter introduces the struggles faced by a teacher attempting to quell resistance to education among the Cheyenne children, spotlighting the traditional attachments of the Native community to their identity and way of life. Key characters, such as the chief Tomacham, his wife Wahiah, and the teacher Seger, illuminate the tension inherent in the desire for progress versus the fear of losing cultural identity. The beginning sets the stage for deeper explorations into the complexities of Native American life amid the forces of change. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75161,500,'Reading ease score: 89.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75161,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75161,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75162,520,'"Kotikaiho: Avioliittoromaani" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the main character, Regina, as she embarks on a journey to Rome after marrying Antonio. The narrative captures her hopes, dreams, and the stark realities of her new life in a bustling city.  The beginning of the novel introduces us to Regina during her train journey to Rome, filled with excitement and trepidation about her new life. As she gazes out at the landscape, she daydreams about the wonders of Rome, contrasting her childhood memories with her new reality. Upon arrival, she is overwhelmed by the crowd and her new family, feeling out of place and suffocated by their expectations. Regina''s mixed feelings of joy and apprehension set the stage for her struggles in adjusting to her marriage and the social dynamics she faces in her new environment, marking the start of her complex journey towards self-identity amidst societal pressures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75162,500,'Reading ease score: 44.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75162,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75162,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75163,520,'"The American Red Cross Magazine (Vol. 8, No. 2, April 1913)" is a periodical publication connected with humanitarian efforts, published in the early 20th century. This magazine aims to inform the public about the activities of the American Red Cross, including various relief efforts in response to humanitarian crises both domestically and internationally, with an emphasis on alleviating human suffering in times of peace and war.  At the start of this volume, the magazine introduces its shift from being a "bulletin" to a "magazine," signifying a broader scope of content and improved quality. It outlines several topics in its table of contents, such as the Red Cross''s significant contributions during floods in the United States, ongoing relief efforts in Turkey amidst conflict and disease, and summaries of various local chapters'' engagements. The introductory section highlights the importance of public contributions to these causes while also providing insights into the organization’s leadership structure and recent developments in response to disasters, demonstrating the Red Cross''s central role in humanitarian efforts during this period. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75163,500,'Reading ease score: 59.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75163,455);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75163,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75164,520,'"Roy Blakeley''s Roundabout Hike" by Percy Keese Fitzhugh is a children''s adventure novel written in the late 1920s. The story follows Roy Blakeley and his fellow Boy Scouts on a whimsical and chaotic hiking expedition filled with humorous mishaps and unexpected discoveries. With a vivid portrayal of childhood camaraderie and the spirit of adventure, the book showcases the antics of Roy and his friends as they embark on their escapades during their time at Scout camp.  The opening of the story introduces us to Roy Blakeley, who is narrating the tale of his latest “crazy hike.” He establishes the quirky nature of his adventures right from the start, indicating that this pilgrimage is more about the experience than following a straightforward path. Accompanied by his friend Pee-wee Harris and a few other Scouts, Roy sets out with wild ideas, playfully arguing over the concept of a hike that starts "from" a place rather than "to" one. The sections highlight their comical conversations, the mischief they create, and the promise of a community adventure as they propose to hunt for a lost will in Beaver Chasm while encountering intriguing characters like Mr. Bagley. As their plans evolve, readers can sense the blend of humor, discovery, and friendship that characterizes the entire journey ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75164,500,'Reading ease score: 92.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75164,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75164,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75165,520,'"Chesterton, as Seen by His Contemporaries" by Cyril Clemens is a biographical account written in the early 20th century. The book compiles memories and reflections from various acquaintances and contemporaries of the influential writer G. K. Chesterton, showcasing his character, intellect, and artistic contributions. It aims to illustrate the impact Chesterton had on those who knew him personally, revealing his distinctive personality and the admiration he generated among his peers.  The opening of this work presents a rich tapestry of reminiscences from Chesterton''s formative years, focusing particularly on his school days. His friends describe him as an unconventional boy, deeply engaged in literature and artistic pursuits while seemingly disinterested in the typical social activities of his peers. Although not academically distinguished, Chesterton emerged as a natural leader within a small group dedicated to debating and intellectual discussion, illustrating qualities that would define his later life as a notable writer and thinker. As the memories unfold, they capture the essence of Chesterton''s early character, his distinct sense of humor, and the beginnings of his literary journey, setting the stage for an exploration of his life and legacy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75165,500,'Reading ease score: 68.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75165,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75165,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75166,520,'"Stories Told by the Miller" by Violet Jacob is a collection of fairy-tale-like stories written in the early 20th century. The book opens with the tale of two orphaned siblings, Janet and little Peter, who live with their cruel grandmother near a mill. The narrative explores themes of hardship and the warmth of storytelling, as the miller becomes a kind and wise friend to the children, sharing enchanting tales that encompass elements of magic and moral lessons.  At the start of this collection, readers are introduced to Janet and Peter, who endure a tough life with their unkind guardian but find solace and adventure by the mill-pool. After one rough day, the siblings sneak to the mill where they encounter the friendly miller, who quickly bonds with them. As little Peter’s love for stories shines, the miller begins to share a magical tale about a Water-Nix, setting the stage for a weave of enchanting stories filled with mythical creatures, adventures, and lessons about bravery and kindness. Through this captivating opening, Jacob invites readers into a world where storytelling serves as a source of comfort and escape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75166,500,'Reading ease score: 86.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75166,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75166,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75167,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 93, No. 569, March 1863" by Various is a historical collection of essays and literary works compiled in the mid-19th century. This volume includes a series of reflections on life, literature, and manners, along with narratives such as "Mrs. Clifford’s Marriage," which serves as a focal story exploring relationships and societal expectations. The publication provides a glimpse into the cultural context of its time, delving into themes of love, ambition, and the societal implications of marriage and family.  At the start of this compilation, the focus is on characters like Percival and Hastings Gray, who engage in a reflective dialogue about motives in life and ambition. They visit Gray''s pastoral residence, Oakden Hall, where Gray reflects on his transition from a once-prominent academic and political figure to a satisfied farmer. Simultaneously, the opening of "Mrs. Clifford''s Marriage" introduces a scandal in a small village regarding Mary Clifford''s decision to remarry, bringing forth discussions among local characters that reveal societal biases toward women and marriage. This setting establishes a rich tapestry of interpersonal dynamics and the societal constraints of the time, inviting readers to contemplate the motivations and moral dilemmas faced by individuals in various social spheres. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75167,500,'Reading ease score: 59.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75167,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75167,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75168,520,'"Secret Remedies: What They Cost and What They Contain" is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book delves into the analyses of various secret remedies, detailing their purported efficacy and actual ingredients, based on investigations conducted for the British Medical Association. It highlights the deceptive marketing tactics of such remedies by juxtaposing their extravagant claims against the realities of their composition.   At the start of the book, the author provides a comprehensive introduction that discusses the allure of secret remedies among the public and the often unfounded claims made by their vendors. The writing prepares readers for a systematic exploration of different remedies, starting with catarrh and cold cures, where the book dissects various preparations, revealing their inconspicuous ingredients and the minimal costs of the actual components compared to their market prices. The opening sets the stage for an analytical critique of the misinformation prevalent in the remedy market, emphasizing the book''s goal of enlightening consumers about the realities behind advertised health cures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75168,500,'Reading ease score: 57.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75168,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75168,434);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75169,520,'"Lebenstag eines Menschenfreundes: Roman" by Wilhelm Schäfer is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around the character Heinrich Pestalozzi, who navigates the complexities of his childhood, experiencing grief, family dynamics, and existential reflections in a world that juxtaposes wealth with poverty. As Heinrich grapples with loss and seeks understanding in his life, the narrative unfolds against the backdrop of society during that era.  The opening of the novel introduces Heinrich Pestalozzi’s family dynamics as he lives in a cramped, working-class setting in Zurich, alongside his grieving mother and siblings. The story begins with the somber event of his father''s death, marking a significant emotional moment for Heinrich and shaping his perception of life. As the narrative progresses, it recounts his deepening awareness of his surroundings—the contrasting experiences of city and countryside, wealth and poverty, and the beginning of his formal education. The text captures his innocent and fearful perspective, as well as his longing for connection and understanding in a world that increasingly reveals its complexities to him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75169,500,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75169,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75169,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75170,520,'"The Sound and the Fury" by William Faulkner is a novel written in the late 1920s. The narrative unfolds in the American South, exploring the complex dynamics of the Compson family, particularly focusing on the characters of Benjy, a mentally disabled man, and his sister Caddy. It tackles themes of time, loss, and the disintegration of familial bonds.  At the start of the story, the reader is introduced to Benjy, who is 33 years old on the day of the narrative, yet experiences the world with a childlike innocence and perception. The opening scenes depict his interactions with Luster, a caretaker, and his memories of Caddy, who is central to his emotional world. Through fragmented thoughts and sensory experiences, Benjy''s perspective reveals his longing and confusion as he navigates a family in decline amidst celebrations and personal turmoil. The prose vividly captures the atmosphere around him, emphasizing the significance of memory and sensory detail in shaping his reality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75170,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Sound_and_the_Fury',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75170,500,'Reading ease score: 92.7 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75170,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75170,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75171,520,'"The Boys of Columbia High in Track Athletics: Or, A Long Run That Won" by Graham B. Forbes is a fictional work written in the early 20th century. This book is set within the context of school life and athletics, specifically focusing on the adventures of a group of high school boys as they prepare for track competitions. The main characters include a trio of distance runners, Lanky Wallace, Frank Allen, and Bones Shadduck, who embody the spirited camaraderie and rivalries typical of teenage boys.  At the start of the story, the boys are engaged in a cross-country run while reminiscing about their final year at Columbia High. This chapter introduces an impending track meet that has captured the school''s excitement. While they discuss their athletic aspirations, the trio faces an unexpected twist when Lanky is pursued by a bull they encounter in a nearby pasture, showcasing the blend of humor and tension that defines their adventures. The opening sets the stage for a narrative that merges themes of friendship, competition, and the challenges of adolescence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75171,500,'Reading ease score: 77.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75171,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75171,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75172,520,'"The Nature of a Crime" by Joseph Conrad and Ford Madox Ford is a novel written in the early 20th century. This collaborative work delves into complex themes of identity, morality, and the nature of crime itself, framed through the personal introspections of its characters. The narrative hints at a deep emotional bond between the figures in the story and raises questions of love, guilt, and the consequences of one''s actions.  At the start of the novel, the protagonist grapples with feelings of love and existential despair, suggesting he is on the brink of making a significant decision regarding his life. As he reflects on his relationship with a woman and the constraints imposed by societal norms, he reveals a deep inner conflict connected to his sense of purpose and identity. The narrative unfolds with a stylistic richness, exploring the protagonist''s memories and emotions while contemplating themes of mortality and the burden of secrecy, hinting that a ''crime'' may be lurking in both literal and metaphorical senses. This introduction sets the stage for a psychologically intricate exploration of the characters'' lives, inviting readers to engage with the moral complexities that will develop throughout the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75172,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Nature_of_a_Crime',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75172,500,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75172,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75172,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75173,520,'"Sons of Fire, Vol. I." by Mary Elizabeth Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story begins with Allan Carew, who is newly inheriting a country estate near the village of Matcham after the death of his bachelor uncle. As Allan acclimates to his new life, he contemplates the changes this inheritance brings, setting the stage for potential interactions with the local gentry and the relationships he may develop within this new social milieu.  At the start of the novel, we follow Allan as he rides out for a day of hunting, filled with a sense of excitement and exploration. He is a stranger in the area, attempting to familiarize himself with his surroundings and the people he is about to meet. His attention is drawn to the locals who mistake him for Geoffrey Wornock, the owner of the local manor, raising questions about their striking resemblance. Through his interactions, we learn of Allan''s introspection regarding his newfound status and the enchanting figure of Mrs. Wornock, Geoffrey’s mother, whose mysterious character captivates him. The opening sets a tone of curiosity and anticipation, hinting at deeper connections and the intricacies of social life in the countryside. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75173,500,'Reading ease score: 78.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75173,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75174,520,'"Sons of Fire, Vol. II" by Mary Elizabeth Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds primarily around the intertwined lives of Allan Carew, Suzette Vincent, and Geoffrey Wornock, exploring themes of love, jealousy, and familial relationships. As the narrative progresses, the main characters navigate emotional complexities, including Allan''s intense feelings for Suzette and his struggles with the charismatic yet restless Geoffrey.  At the start of the novel, the returning Geoffrey introduces tension into the existing relationship between Allan and Suzette. While Geoffrey''s charm and musical talent draw Suzette closer, Allan grapples with feelings of jealousy and inadequacy, fearing he may lose her to Geoffrey''s alluring nature. The opening passages depict an atmosphere rich in music and the quiet companionship of the Wornock family, contrasted with Allan''s internal strife. As the characters engage in music, each performance becomes a testament to their emotional connections—highlighting the complexities of love and the potential for heartache that lies beneath the surface of their interactions. The stage is set for a story exploring both aspirations and the specter of loss. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75174,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75174,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75174,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75175,520,'"Sons of Fire, Vol. III" by Mary Elizabeth Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century. This work continues to explore the entangled lives of its characters, primarily focusing on the romantic tensions involving Geoffrey Wornock and Suzette, among others, amidst a backdrop of adventure and exploration. The narrative unfolds against the scenic vistas of Africa, weaving themes of passion, betrayal, and the pursuit of love.  At the start of the novel, Geoffrey Wornock is seen yearning for his beloved Suzette, whom he believes is waiting for him despite being previously bound to another man, Allan Carew. His restless spirit drives him as he embarks on a journey towards her, filled with romantic idealism and passionate declarations of love. Meanwhile, Allan, heartbroken yet composed, navigates his emotions as he prepares for an expedition to Africa, where he hopes to find solace and perhaps escape the pain of losing Suzette. The emotional stakes are high as both men grapple with unrequited love and rivalry, setting the stage for a tale of love that intersects with themes of destiny and adventure in a beautifully rendered wilderness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75175,500,'Reading ease score: 78.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75175,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75176,520,'"Henry Goes Prehistoric" by W. C. Tuttle is a humorous novel written in the mid-20th century. The story unfolds in Wild Horse Valley and follows the escapades of Henry Harrison Conroy, an unlikely sheriff, as he navigates the challenges of crime, intrigue, and unexpected adventures amidst the rugged backdrop of Arizona during the gold rush era.  The narrative centers around Sheriff Henry Conroy, his deputy Judge Van Treece, and their inept yet endearing sidekick, the simple-minded Oscar Johnson. When a local prospector, Old Ben Todd, is found murdered, Henry and his eccentric crew dive into the mystery. The plot thickens with elements of rivalry, corruption, and a comedic twist as they uncover a band of high-graders led by the enigmatic Peter Gonyer. With a mix of whimsical characters and humorous situations, including a series of misadventures involving a new buckboard and various mishaps in Lobo Canyon, Tuttle weaves a tale that critiques the absurdity of frontier life while delivering suspense and laughs. Ultimately, the story addresses themes of friendship, ambition, and the humorous side of facing one’s fears in a chaotic world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75176,500,'Reading ease score: 85.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75176,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75176,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75177,520,'"Marine Bayonet Training" by United States Marine Corps is a military training manual published in the mid-20th century. This book serves as a detailed guide on bayonet fighting techniques, addressing methods of individual and group combat as well as training programs for Marine Corps personnel. The topics covered include the history of bayonet use, principles of bayonet fighting, specific attack and defense movements, and an emphasis on the importance of teamwork and aggressiveness in combat scenarios.  The manual begins with a historical overview of the bayonet''s evolution, followed by instructional content regarding positions and movements essential for effective bayonet use. It details various attack techniques such as the slash, jab, and butt strokes, alongside defensive maneuvers like blocking and parrying. The training section outlines a program to develop skills through demonstrations, physical conditioning, and simulated combat scenarios using tools like the pugil stick, ensuring that trainees build both proficiency and confidence in their bayonet fighting abilities. Overall, "Marine Bayonet Training" is a comprehensive resource aimed at preparing Marines for close-quarters combat through rigorous practice and strategic application of bayonet techniques. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75177,500,'Reading ease score: 56.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75177,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75177,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75178,520,'"Across the Sub-Arctics of Canada" by J. W. Tyrrell is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It chronicles the author''s ambitious expedition to explore the largely uncharted territories of Canada’s Barren Lands, embarking on a daunting journey spanning 3,200 miles by canoe and on snowshoes. The book provides insights into the challenges faced by the expedition team, the landscapes they traverse, and the interactions with the Indigenous peoples they encounter along the way.  The opening of the book introduces the expedition, detailing preparations leading up to the journey which began in May 1893. Tyrrell sets the stage by outlining the context of their mission: a collaboration with his brother, an official of the Canadian Geological Survey, to investigate the unknown territories north of Athabasca Landing. The narrative discusses the various logistical challenges, including securing durable canoes and assembling a skilled team of canoemen. As they depart from civilization, Tyrrell reflects on the emotional farewells and the pressing desire for exploration that drives the expedition into the wilderness, preparing readers for the adventures and discoveries that lie ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75178,500,'Reading ease score: 68.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75178,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75178,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75179,520,'"Her Majesty the King: A Romance of the Harem" by James Jeffrey Roche is a novel written in the late 19th century. This work appears to explore themes of love, governance, and societal expectations within a Middle Eastern palace setting, primarily focusing on the characters of Pasha Muley Mustapha and his wife, Kayenna. As the story unfolds, we observe their tumultuous relationship and the ensuing comedic and dramatic events resulting from their attempts to adjust to their roles and responsibilities.  At the start of the narrative, we meet Pasha Muley Mustapha, a man finding himself at odds with his wife, Kayenna, over the upbringing of their child. He expresses his desire to allow their son the freedom to experience life outside the confines of the harem, while Kayenna vehemently opposes this idea, deciding instead to tightly control their child’s environment. This clash ignites a series of misunderstandings and accidental deceptions, particularly surrounding the birth of their child, whom the outside world believes to be a boy, when in fact the truth is far more complicated. The opening sets the stage for a humorous yet critical examination of love, authority, and the absurdities within family and court politics, promising a mix of wit and narrative intrigue as the tale progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75179,500,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75179,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75179,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75180,520,'"Children of the Lighthouse" by Nora Archibald Smith is a children’s novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds on a small, rocky island where two siblings, Lesley and Ronald McLean, explore their vibrant, albeit secluded, world filled with animals and curious characters, most notably their friend Stumpy, an old sailor who tells tales and shares adventures. The book likely captures themes of childhood innocence, discovery, and the simple pleasures found in nature and companionship.  At the start of the novel, Ronald and Lesley, the only children on the island, engage in playful banter and explore their surroundings. The siblings climb cliffs, ride their donkey named Jenny Lind, and interact with the whimsical Stumpy, who entertains them with stories of his past. As they navigate through their daily adventures, including encounters with a pet crow named Jim and a variety of animals, their carefree life reveals the joys and challenges of growing up in such isolation. The opening establishes a warm, curious atmosphere as it introduces the charming island setting and the delightfully imaginative exploits of the children. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75180,500,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75180,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75180,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75181,520,'"An American Tragedy, v. 1" by Theodore Dreiser is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Clyde Griffiths, a young man growing up in a struggling, religious family who is torn between his faith and the materialistic aspirations of society. The novel explores themes of ambition, class struggle, and the influence of environment on personal destiny.  The opening of the book introduces a summer evening in a bustling American city, where Clyde is part of a family engaged in street preaching. The narrative vividly captures the dynamics of Clyde’s family life and the burdens he feels due to his parents'' religious fervor and the family''s economic struggles. As they attempt to attract attention by singing hymns on the streets, Clyde experiences a mix of embarrassment and longing for a different life—one that is not defined by poverty and religious duty. His internal conflict sets the stage for his eventual pursuit of wealth and status, illustrating the harsh contrasts between his aspirations and his reality. This introduction establishes the foundation for Clyde''s tragic journey throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75181,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_American_Tragedy',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75181,500,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75181,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75181,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75182,520,'"An American Tragedy, v. 2" by Theodore Dreiser is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book explores the complex life and inner struggles of Clyde Griffiths, who is torn between his relationship with two women: Roberta Alden and Sondra Finchley. As Clyde navigates societal expectations, class distinctions, and personal desires, the narrative delves into themes of ambition, morality, and the tragic consequences of choices made in the pursuit of happiness.  At the start of the second volume, Clyde finds himself ensnared in a web of conflicting emotions and responsibilities. He is increasingly distracted by his infatuation with Sondra while grappling with the looming threat posed by his relationship with Roberta, who is expecting their child. The tension mounts as Clyde actively seeks opportunities to maintain his social climbing aspirations at the same time as he tries to distance himself from Roberta, who is pressing him for commitment. The opening chapters vividly depict his internal turmoil, showcasing Clyde''s tragic inability to reconcile his desires with his obligations, foreshadowing the looming disaster that threatens to engulf him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75182,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_American_Tragedy',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75182,500,'Reading ease score: 77.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75182,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75182,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75183,520,'"The Eatonville Anthology" by Zora Neale Hurston is a collection of vignettes written during the early 20th century. Through a series of character sketches and brief stories, the book explores the lives, joys, and struggles of the African American community in Eatonville, Florida, which was one of the first all-Black towns to be incorporated in the United States. The anthology captures the rich culture, social dynamics, and everyday experiences of its inhabitants, providing a vibrant glimpse into their world.  The book presents a series of short narratives, each depicting distinct characters such as Mrs. Tony Roberts, the perennial beggar; Jim Merchant, who finds humor in his wife''s quirks; and the witty gossip regarding Daisy Taylor, the town vamp who flirts with married men. Other anecdotes showcase the quirky tales of Old Man Anderson, who has never seen a train, and the amusing escapades of Coon Taylor, who playfully steals melons yet eludes catch. Through a blend of humor, social commentary, and poignant observations, Hurston effectively illustrates the complexity and resilience of life in Eatonville, while celebrating African American culture and community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75183,500,'Reading ease score: 91.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75183,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75183,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75184,520,'"Political Fragments of Archytas, Charondas, Zaleucus, and other ancient Pythagoreans" is a collection of philosophical writings from ancient Greece, likely compiled in the early 19th century. This volume preserves valuable insights from notable Pythagorean thinkers and legislators, exploring themes of governance, ethics, and the structure of society. Through the lens of political philosophy, it addresses the roles of different societal classes and the function of laws in shaping a just and harmonious community.  The opening of this work begins with a transcriber''s note and an introduction that contextualizes the fragments to follow, praising their antiquity and wisdom. It elaborates on the significance of the authors, including legislators Charondas and Zaleucus, highlighting their philosophical connections to Pythagorean teachings. The text then transitions into a thorough discussion on the structure of political society, dividing it into classes based on virtue and occupation, and emphasizing the need for laws and moral education to ensure societal wellbeing. Importantly, it underscores the mutual dependencies of governance, law, and individual conduct within the broader scope of community and ethics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75184,500,'Reading ease score: 52.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75184,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75184,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75185,520,'"Der Ameisenlöwe: eine biologische, tierpsychologische und reflexbiologische Untersuchung" by Dr. Franz Doflein is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book delves into the biology, behavior, and reflexes of the antlion, a fascinating insect known for its unique hunting techniques. The author aims to document both the existing literature on the subject and his own experimental findings to provide a comprehensive understanding of this species.  The beginning of the work introduces the antlion, emphasizing its fascinating life cycle and predatory behavior as larvae. Doflein reflects on the historical context of antlion studies, noting a lack of thorough and analytical observations despite the creature''s long history of fascination among naturalists. He outlines the structure of his work, which includes detailed chapters on the morphology, behavior in various conditions, sensory organs, and reflexes of the antlion, underscoring the importance of rigorous scientific study in understanding this intriguing insect. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75185,500,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75185,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75185,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75186,520,'"A Literal Translation of the Saxon Chronicle" by Anna Gurney is a historical account written in the early 19th century. This translation seeks to present the Saxon Chronicle, an ancient record chronicling the history and events of Britain from the Roman occupation through early English kingdoms. The text covers a range of significant historical figures and events, providing insights into the origins of various British nations, Roman conquests, and the establishment of early Christian practices.  The opening of this work introduces the reader to the geographical layout of Britain and the early inhabitants, including the Britons, Saxons, and Picts. It discusses the arrival of Romans under Julius Caesar and subsequent battles, setting the stage for the rise of new kingdoms in a landscape shaped by conflict and cultural exchanges. Through a series of annals, the translation begins to detail pivotal moments in British history, such as the birth of Christ and the establishment of Christian bishoprics, demonstrating the intertwining of faith and governance in shaping the identity of early England. This comprehensive historical narrative aims to preserve the chronicle''s significance while making it accessible to contemporary readers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75186,500,'Reading ease score: 64.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75186,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75186,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75187,520,'"Elämän kasvot: Romaani" by Maila Talvio is a fictional novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around the life of Liina Kareliin, a young woman facing the struggles of familial duty and her own desires amidst a backdrop of societal expectations and personal relationships.   The opening of the novel introduces the setting on a cold morning in Porvoo, focusing on Liina, who is tasked with the discomforting job of killing a chicken for dinner. As she prepares for this task, a dynamic is revealed between Liina, her mother (who is physically frail), and her siblings, with the mother expressing concern for her daughters'' marital prospects, particularly regarding Liina''s relationship with the local baker, Benjamin Laurén. Themes of family obligations, societal scrutiny, and the quest for personal happiness are presented as Liina navigates her complex emotions and relationships, setting the stage for the deeper conflicts and resolutions to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75187,500,'Reading ease score: 53.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75187,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75187,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75188,520,'"Social Process" by Charles Horton Cooley is a scholarly work on sociology written in the early 20th century. The book explores the intricate dynamics of human interactions and social structures, emphasizing the organic growth and interconnectedness of individual and collective experiences. Cooley analyzes how personal and impersonal forms of life evolve, adapt, and influence one another, ultimately shaping society as a whole.  At the start of "Social Process," Cooley introduces the concept of adaptive growth in human life, where individual development is seen as a continuous interaction with others and their conditions. He highlights the interplay between personal and impersonal forms, such as myths and language, demonstrating that even collective ideas and social institutions have a significant impact on individual identity. Cooley emphasizes the importance of the tentative process of social growth, where varied individual experiences contribute to the broader social fabric. Through examples, he illustrates how personal aspirations, social roles, and institutional changes work together to shape the ongoing evolution of society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75188,500,'Reading ease score: 52.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75188,482);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75189,520,'"Buttrick''s Voyages, 1812-1819; Evans''s Pedestrious Tour, 1818" by Reuben Gold Thwaites is a collection of travel accounts written in the early 20th century. This volume features the journals of two American travelers recounting their experiences in the Middle and Far West during the formative years of American settlement. The narratives provide vivid portrayals of the social and economic conditions as well as encounters with the indigenous population during a pivotal time in U.S. history.  The opening of the compilation presents an introduction by the editor, Reuben Gold Thwaites, which outlines the contrasting experiences of Tilly Buttrick and Estwick Evans. Buttrick''s journey, marked by his adventurous spirit, details his extensive travels through the Western territories, including his harrowing experiences during the War of 1812. Conversely, Evans undertakes a 4,000-mile tour, experiencing the harsh realities of Western life while sharing philosophical reflections on civilization and nature. Their stories vividly illustrate the challenges faced by early explorers and settlers in a landscape rich with both opportunity and peril, setting the stage for insights into the evolving American frontier. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75189,500,'Reading ease score: 67.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75189,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75189,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75190,520,'"Reconstruction in Louisiana after 1868" by Ella Lonn is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book delves into the tumultuous years of Reconstruction in Louisiana following the Civil War, with a focus on the political, social, and economic challenges faced during this transformative period. It examines the role of various actors, including political leaders and newly enfranchised citizens, as they navigated the complexities of post-war governance and societal integration.  The opening of the book provides a comprehensive overview of the tumultuous Reconstruction era beginning in Louisiana. It details the political fragmentation and struggles for power that characterized the state, highlighting the early governance attempts under military rule and the strained relationship between newly appointed officials and the local populace. The narrative outlines significant events, such as elections, legislative actions, and the contentious debates surrounding race and governance. Lonn sets the stage for an in-depth analysis of how Louisiana sought to re-establish order and legitimacy amidst rampant corruption and political discord, foreshadowing the challenges and conflicts that would unfold as Reconstruction progressed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75190,500,'Reading ease score: 56.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75190,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75190,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75191,520,'"Opposite Neighbours; or, The Two Lives, and Their End" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story follows two contrasting characters, Letty Bright and her cousin Agnes, as they navigate the challenges of courtship, marriage, and domestic life. Through their experiences, the novel explores themes of social class, personal values, and the pursuit of happiness in a changing world.  At the start of the narrative, readers are introduced to Letty, a hardworking girl who is preparing for her upcoming marriage to John Caswell. As she discusses her plans with her employer, Mrs. Trescott, Letty expresses her desire for a modest yet fulfilling life built on solid principles. In contrast, her cousin Agnes, who is engaged to the carefree Joseph Emerson, indulges in materialistic aspirations, focusing on extravagant wedding preparations. The opening chapters set the stage for the unfolding drama between these two starkly different paths, showcasing their individual dreams and the societal expectations placed upon them as they embark on their respective marital journeys. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75191,500,'Reading ease score: 80.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75191,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75192,520,'"Three Little Trippertrots on Their Travels: The Wonderful Things They Saw and the Wonderful Things They Did" by Howard R. Garis is a children''s adventure story written in the early 20th century. The narrative follows the three Trippertrot children—Mary, Johnny, and Tommy—as they embark on whimsical escapades, meeting various characters and encountering magical situations. The book is likely to appeal to young readers with its imaginative tales of adventure and friendship.  At the start of the story, the Trippertrot children are sharing their previous adventures around a fire after a long day. They reminisce about meeting colorful characters and embarking on exciting journeys, which sets the tone for their next escapade. Mary expresses a desire to stay home, but the allure of adventure is too strong, especially when a mouse that Mary believes to be a fairy leads them on a chase. This initial setup introduces the theme of curiosity and wonder, emphasizing the importance of exploring the world around them, even as it hints at their tendency to get lost and seek new experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75192,500,'Reading ease score: 90.6 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75192,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75193,520,'"Blindness" by Henry Green is a novel written in the early 20th century. This work presents a poignant and introspective exploration of the life of John Haye, who suddenly becomes blind after a tragic accident involving a stone thrown by a boy while he is on a train. The narrative delves deeply into John’s internal struggles as he grapples with his new reality, the relationship with his mother, and the societal expectations surrounding his disability.  At the start of the book, John begins to document his thoughts in an informal diary, revealing his initial carefree life at Noat and his interactions with friends and fellow students. The tone shifts dramatically when he becomes aware of his blindness following the accident. The narrative captures his emotional turmoil, the burden of his mother''s well-meaning but inadequate attempts at comfort, and the shift in dynamics as his once vibrant life is overshadowed by darkness and pain. John’s relationships with his family and friends begin to evolve as he navigates this new, challenging existence, indicating a deeper exploration of identity, loss, and adaptation throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75193,500,'Reading ease score: 92.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75193,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75193,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75194,520,'"Napnyugati mesék" by Ferenc Herczeg is a collection of stories likely written in the early 20th century. The narrative seems to explore themes of science, creativity, and possibly the human condition through the lens of adventure and metaphysical ideas, revolving around a character named Szergiusz, a professor with a troubled genius, and his daughter Róza.   At the start of the collection, we are introduced to Szergiusz, a once-renowned professor whose brilliance in the field of electrotechnics has become overshadowed by a decline into madness. The opening establishes a unique blend of humor and tragedy, emphasizing the professor''s eccentricities and obsession with invention. Following a peculiar advertisement seeking a husband for his daughter Róza, the story quickly escalates into a comedic and dramatic encounter with a soldier named Tibor, who finds himself entangled in Szergiusz''s ambitions to preserve his legacy and protect Róza’s future. As the narrative unfolds, it hints at grand themes of love, ambition, and the pursuit of knowledge, setting a compelling stage for the ensuing tales. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75194,500,'Reading ease score: 66.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75194,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75194,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75195,520,'"The Mystery of the Peacock''s Eye" by Brian Flynn is a mystery novel written in the late 1920s. The story begins at a glamorous social event, the Hunt Ball at Westhampton, which is set against a backdrop of class distinctions and a recent banking scandal that casts shadows over the county''s elite. Central characters include major players in this society, such as the enigmatic Mr. X and the charming Sheila Delaney, whose interactions hint at personal intrigues that intersect with a murder mystery that unfolds.  At the start of the novel, readers are introduced to the opulence of the Hunt Ball and the tension simmering beneath its surface due to the scandal of Sir Felix Warburton''s arrest. The narrative quickly shifts to Mr. Bathurst, a detective, who receives a mysterious letter calling him to meet a gentleman concerning a matter of "urgent and peculiar importance." This exchange leads Bathurst deeper into the case involving the Crown Prince of Clorania, who is embroiled in a blackmail scandal linked to the deceased Daphne Carruthers, revealing layers of intrigue, deception, and the personal stakes for multiple characters. The opening sets the stage for a complex web of relationships and motives, enticing the reader to unravel the mystery at hand. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75195,500,'Reading ease score: 76.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75195,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75195,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75196,520,'"La giovinezza di Giulio Cesare, Volume 1 (of 2)" by Giuseppe Rovani is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative delves into the early life of the iconic Roman general and statesman, Julius Caesar, focusing on his youth amid the sociopolitical turmoil of ancient Rome. As characters such as Pompeo and Catilina enter the scene, the book promises to explore not only the historical context but also the personal experiences and relationships that shaped Caesar''s path.  At the start of the novel, Rovani sets the tone by discussing the artistic and literary climate of Italy, reflecting on the challenges of finding inspirational subjects in a society that often dismissed ancient Greek and Roman themes. The opening scene introduces the reader to a moment in Roman history marked by Pompeo''s triumphant return from Africa, highlighting the political tensions between powerful figures and foreshadowing Caesar''s ambitions. The narrative intricately weaves together dramatic events and personal aspirations, as we witness the young Caesar navigating the complexities of Roman society, from his interactions with influential mentors to his entanglements with figures like Catilina, all while laying the groundwork for the monumental role he is destined to play in history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75196,500,'Reading ease score: 36.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75196,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75196,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75197,520,'"La giovinezza di Giulio Cesare, Volume 2" by Giuseppe Rovani is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative delves into the life and tumultuous background of young Julius Caesar as he navigates the treacherous waters of Roman society, family conflict, and the political intrigues of his time. The central characters introduced include Marco Sceva, his morally flawed father Publio, and Gordiene, a significant figure representing love and tragedy in Marco''s life.  At the start of the volume, the tension in the Sceva household is palpable as Marco attempts to locate Gordiene, who is hidden in a dangerous situation involving his father, Publio. Their confrontation leads to a violent and tragic climax, showcasing the darkness of familial betrayal and the societal norms of the time that bind characters to their fateful roles. Marco''s desperation to save Gordiene culminates in a heartbreaking moment of loss, setting the stage for further exploration of his character and the broader political scheming represented by figures like Caesar and Catiline as the plot develops. This opening lays a strong emotional foundation that hints at the larger historical events intertwined with personal tragedy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75197,500,'Reading ease score: 39.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75197,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75197,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75198,520,'"Sainte Jeanne de Chantal" by Victor Giraud is a biographical account written in the early 20th century. The work explores the life of Jeanne de Chantal, a prominent figure in Christian history and spirituality, known for her deep faith and charitable works. The narrative is likely to delve into her personal experiences, relationships, and the religious context of her time, presenting her journey towards sanctity and the foundation of the Visitation Order.  The opening of "Sainte Jeanne de Chantal" introduces readers to Jeanne''s noble lineage and upbringing in a religiously devout family, detailing her early life in Dijon, France. It paints a vivid picture of her character as a caring and lively child, deeply connected to her faith. The text recounts the struggles and trials she faced, including the loss of loved ones and her eventual marriage to Christophe de Chantal, highlighting her dedication to charity and her profound love for God. This early segment sets the stage for exploring her spiritual evolution and the influence of significant figures such as Saint François de Sales, who later guides her on her religious journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75198,500,'Reading ease score: 71.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75198,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75198,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75199,520,'"Le dessous : roman" by Rachilde is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Marguerite, a young woman navigating her dull and sheltered life, filled with literary escapism and societal expectations. The opening chapters explore her introspective thoughts and her interactions with the natural and social world around her, reflecting on beauty, order, and the expectations placed upon women during this time.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Marguerite, who is found in her pristine room, often lost in the books she reads, which serve as both an escape and a source of discomfort. While contemplating her surroundings and her family''s expectations, she steps outside to admire the lush gardens of Flachère. This seemingly idyllic setting quickly shifts when she encounters an enigmatic figure—initially mistaken for a scarecrow—who turns out to be a man in search of sustenance. Their interaction hints at underlying tensions between societal classes and personal desires, setting the stage for further exploration of deeper themes of social order, identity, and rebellion against the norms that dictate their lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75199,500,'Reading ease score: 81.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75199,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75199,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75200,520,'"The Man of Iron" by Richard Dehan is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Patrick Carolan Breagh, a young boy, as he grapples with profound themes of identity, family, and the passage from childhood into a more complex adult world. Set against a backdrop of societal change and personal tumult, the book explores the effects of war and disillusionment on individuals and families.  The opening of "The Man of Iron" introduces us to a crucial moment in young Carolan''s life as he learns the painful truth about his family history and the death of his mother, Milly. On his birthday, dressed in new breeches, he accidentally overhears a conversation revealing the secret of his lineage and the neglect he feels from his stepmother, Mrs. Breagh. As Carolan continues to navigate these revelations, he is forced to confront complex feelings about love, loss, and his place in a world shaped by war and personal expectations. Through vivid imagery and rich emotional depth, the narrative crafts a compelling journey of self-discovery and resilience in the face of adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75200,500,'Reading ease score: 70.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75200,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75201,520,'"A Farewell to Arms" by Ernest Hemingway is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story is set during World War I and follows the experiences of an American ambulance driver named Frederick Henry, who serves in the Italian army. The novel explores themes of love, loss, and the brutal realities of war, capturing both the beauty and the horror that the main character encounters, as well as his relationships with others, particularly with the English nurse Catherine Barkley.  The opening of the book establishes a wartime setting filled with vivid imagery of soldiers, artillery, and the changing landscapes marked by the conflict. The narrative introduces readers to Henry''s life in a village close to the front lines, describing the daily passage of troops and the omnipresent reminder of war through sounds of artillery in the mountains. As the seasons progress from summer to winter, there are hints of both the physical and emotional toll that war exacts on those involved. The protagonist''s interactions with soldiers and his reflections on the war foreshadow the personal struggles he will face, both in his duties as a driver and in his complex relationship with Catherine Barkley, who becomes a significant focal point in his life amidst the chaos of war. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75201,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Farewell_to_Arms',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75201,500,'Reading ease score: 95.8 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75201,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75201,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75202,520,'"Balbus; or, the future of architecture" by Christian Augustus Barman is a critical examination of architecture and its relationship to societal changes, written in the early 20th century. The book navigates the evolving landscape of architectural design, highlighting the connections between social movements and architectural forms, as well as the implications of modern industrial practices on building styles. Its primary focus is on the impact of societal conditions on the future of architecture.  In "Balbus," Barman articulates the ongoing transformation within architecture spurred by modernity, particularly emphasizing the emancipation of women and the adjustment to urban transportation demands. He argues that architecture must adapt to the rhythms of societal change, showcasing how buildings increasingly reflect the needs of their users rather than embodying artistic ideals of the past. The author discusses specific architectural trends, such as the emergence of open-plan designs in commercial buildings and the implications of zoning laws on urban architecture. Additionally, he critiques the notion that architectural beauty relies solely on materials or dimensions, insisting instead on the importance of internal space organization. Ultimately, Barman posits that the future of architecture will be shaped by these social dynamics, presenting a nuanced view of both the challenges and opportunities inherent in contemporary architectural practice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75202,500,'Reading ease score: 49.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75202,425);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75202,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75203,520,'"Chemistry for Beginners" by Hereward Carrington is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This book serves as an introduction to the principles and concepts of chemistry, exploring its history from ancient alchemy to contemporary scientific understanding. It covers a wide range of topics, including the atomic theory, the periodic law, the nature of elements, and modern biochemical processes.  The content of "Chemistry for Beginners" is structured in two parts, with the first focusing on the historical evolution of chemistry and its foundational principles. Carrington discusses key figures like John Dalton, the importance of emissions and absorption spectra in identifying elements, and the relationship between elements as explained by the periodic law. The second part elaborates on elements individually, their properties, and the significance of organic and inorganic compounds. Additionally, the book delves into advanced topics such as radioactivity, intra-atomic energy, and the origins of life, offering a comprehensive overview of chemistry that blends scientific inquiry with philosophical reflections on the nature of matter. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75203,500,'Reading ease score: 59.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75203,475);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75203,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75204,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no. 146" is a periodical publication edited by R. Chambers (Secundus), and was established by William and Robert Chambers in 1832. Likely written during the late 19th century, this collection encapsulates a range of topics in literature, science, and art, illustrating contemporary perspectives on various subjects such as Yorkshire''s geography, cave exploration, and insights on societal issues through short stories and articles.  The journal features a diverse compilation of articles touching on the natural wonders of Yorkshire, including its rugged terrain and underground caves, alongside reflections on the role and significance of nurses in society. The narratives within reflect a blend of adventure, scientific inquiry, and social commentary, showcasing not only the exploration of physical landscapes but also the exploration of human experiences and duties in the context of duty and service. The writing aims to engage and inform readers about the rich tapestry of life and the importance of empathy and care in both public and personal realms. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75204,500,'Reading ease score: 63.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75204,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75204,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75205,520,'"Le livre commode des adresses de Paris pour 1692, tome 1/2" by Monsieur de Blégny is a historical guidebook written in the late 19th century. The work serves as a compendium of addresses within Paris, providing essential information for locals and travelers alike. Its purpose appears to be to facilitate navigation and access to various services, highlighting the importance of organized information in urban life.  At the start of this guide, the author discusses the longstanding tradition of providing guides in great cities, referencing historical precedents from ancient times up to the Middle Ages. The introduction emphasizes the role of guides, known as "proxenetae", in assisting visitors by directing them to important sites and individuals. The author positions the book within a lineage of evolving assistive literature, hinting at his intention to create a modern resource for the bustling urban environment of 17th-century Paris that remains relevant in the face of increasing complexity in societal interactions and commerce. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75205,500,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75205,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75205,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75206,520,'"Le livre commode des adresses de Paris pour 1692, tome 2/2" by Monsieur de Blégny is a historical reference work likely written in the late 19th century. This volume serves as a detailed guide to the various merchants and trades in Paris during the year 1692, providing a wealth of addresses and descriptions of businesses that were prevalent at the time.  At the start of this volume, readers are introduced to a rich tapestry of Parisian commerce, from grocers and spice merchants to fabric vendors and chandlers. The text meticulously catalogs specific locations and the types of goods offered by each trader, suggesting a vibrant market environment complete with historical context. The variety of goods and the intricacies of the trade relationships of the period come to life, setting the tone for the detailed exploration of the city’s commercial landscape that this guide promises to deliver. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75206,500,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75206,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75206,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75207,520,'"Álomország: Regény" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set against a backdrop of political and societal tensions, exploring themes such as power, identity, and gender roles through the experiences of its characters. Central to the narrative is a mysterious and captivating woman, referred to as the "fehér asszony" (white lady), who finds herself entangled in complex interactions within a male-dominated political arena.  The opening of the novel introduces a tumultuous scene in a parliamentary chamber, where the atmosphere is charged with tension and chaos among the representatives. The white lady observes the events from a balcony, fixated on the calm demeanor of the prime minister, who contrasts sharply with the commotion below. Her thoughts reflect a longing for freedom from societal constraints and an awareness of her connection to a powerful male figure. As she navigates her feelings, we are introduced to Belizár, an ambitious American businessman, who is portrayed as a forceful character with aspirations of dominance in maritime trade. This sets the stage for a blend of personal and political drama, as the characters grapple with desires, ambitions, and the implications of their choices in a rapidly changing world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75207,500,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75207,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75207,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75208,520,'"Louhivaaran patriarkka: Romaani Pohjois-Karjalasta" by Simo Eronen is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in the remote wilderness of Louhivara, North Karelia, and follows the life of Yrjö Hänninen, a forest warden and humble farmer deeply connected to the land and its traditions. The narrative hints at the tension between old practices and the encroachment of modernity, as well as personal struggles within Yrjö’s family.  At the start of the novel, Eronen paints a vivid picture of the serene and untouched nature surrounding Louhivara, juxtaposed with the burgeoning presence of change brought by the new forest officer. We meet Yrjö Hänninen, who cherishes his ancestral responsibilities and the quiet majesty of the forests he tends to. His character is introduced alongside elements of his upbringing, such as the strong influence of his mother and the traditional beliefs of the local people. As the narrative unfolds, it becomes clear that tensions arise due to the conflicting desires for progress represented by the new forest officer and Yrjö''s deep-seated conservatism, igniting a struggle not only for the land but also for values and identity in a changing world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75208,500,'Reading ease score: 49.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75208,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75208,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75209,520,'"The Case of the Black Twenty-Two" by Brian Flynn is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around Peter Daventry, a junior partner at a London law firm, who finds himself embroiled in a mystery involving stolen antiques and intertwined murders. As he navigates through this labyrinth of deception, the eccentricities of his clients and the sinister happenings in the background keep the reader engaged in a mix of humor and suspense.  At the start of the novel, Peter Daventry is introduced as a somewhat disillusioned young solicitor, reflecting on the tedium of his work while preparing for a peculiar commission from an American millionaire collector, Laurence P. Stewart. He is tasked with acquiring three historical items linked to Mary, Queen of Scots, but soon finds himself connecting with other characters, including Mr. Linnell, his senior partner, and an array of shadowy figures that add intrigue to the narrative. As events unfold, a robbery and a murder occur at the Hanover Galleries, where the very items Daventry was to acquire go missing, setting off a chain of investigations that hint at deeper complexities and eventual lethal consequences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75209,500,'Reading ease score: 76.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75209,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75209,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75210,520,'"With the Empress Dowager of China" by Katharine A. Carl is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book recounts the author''s experiences as she was invited to the Chinese Court to paint the portrait of the Empress Dowager, a notable figure in Chinese history known for her significant and often controversial influence. The narrative delves into the dynamics of the court, the customs, and the intricacies involved in painting the imperial portrait, offering insights into this unique time and culture.  The opening of the book details the author''s arrival in Peking and her preparation for her first audience with the Empress Dowager. It describes the journey from the American Legation to the Summer Palace, providing vivid imagery of the landscape and entering the opulent imperial grounds. During the first audience, the author shares her surprise at the Empress Dowager''s gracious demeanor, contrasting sharply with the feared reputation that preceded her. The first sitting for the portrait begins amid great formality, revealing both the author''s artistic ambitions and the strain of capturing the essence of such a powerful and enigmatic figure under the scrutiny of court officials and attendants. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75210,500,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75210,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75210,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75211,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no. 147" is a periodical publication edited by R. Chambers (Secundus) and established in the early 19th century by William and Robert Chambers. This journal, typical of Victorian-era literature, includes a combination of articles on various topics including literature, scientific developments, and works of art. The content reflects on the social issues and cultural conditions of the time, with particular attention to important historical narratives such as the struggles of indigenous populations, like the Maoris, against European colonization.  The journal features several pieces, one of which brings to light the plight of the Maori people in New Zealand as they confront the challenges of diminishing numbers and health impacts brought on by European settlement. Articles delve into the cultural, social, and medical aspects of their existence, discussing both the detrimental effects of colonial disease and the potential benefits of education and modernization. Another story recounts the legend of the Denschman—a Viking-era tale set in Shetland—illustrating themes of survival, transformation, and the dynamics of power between conquerors and the conquered. This collection serves as not only a record of the times but also an exploration of the fascinating interactions between indigenous cultures and European influences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75211,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Edinburgh_Journal',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75211,500,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75211,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75211,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75212,520,'"A Mirror for Witches" by Esther Forbes is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the context of witch trials and the dark machinations surrounding a character named Doll Bilby, a girl with a mysterious origin linked to witchcraft. The narrative explores themes of good versus evil, the perception of witchcraft, and the consequences of desperate choices in a world filled with superstition and moral conflict.  The opening of the novel introduces the reader to the infamous Doll Bilby, whose life is intertwined with that of devils and dark arts, starting from her tragic beginnings as the child of witch parents burned in a holocaust. As the narrative progresses, we learn about her adoption by the kind-hearted Captain Jared Bilby, her struggles with a troubled and jealous stepmother, and her unsettling powers that spark fear and suspicion among those around her. The tension builds as Doll navigates the complexities of her identity and the dark consequences of her actions, setting the stage for a story steeped in folklore and the supernatural, addressing her inner turmoil and the perceptions of a society gripped by fear of witchcraft. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75212,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Mirror_for_Witches',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75212,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75212,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75212,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75213,520,'"Account of the Skerryvore Lighthouse" by Alan Stevenson is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. The book details the construction and illumination of the Skerryvore Lighthouse, highlighting the complexities involved in erecting the structure on a treacherous rocky outcrop amidst severe Atlantic conditions.   At the start of the volume, the author provides a prelude that underscores the challenges faced during the project, such as the urgency of building the lighthouse to ensure safety for mariners and the risks associated with the physical environment. The discussion includes acknowledgments of his predecessors and the context of the Lighthouse Board''s establishment, emphasizing its critical role in enhancing maritime safety. Stevenson articulates the necessity of careful planning and the difficulties encountered during the initial surveys of the rock, setting the stage for a detailed exploration of both the engineering accomplishments and the technical innovations introduced in lighthouse illumination. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75213,500,'Reading ease score: 58.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75213,437);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75213,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75214,520,'"Au tournant des jours" by Daniel Lesueur is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the character Gilles de Claircœur, a popular feuilletonist known for her captivating tales that resonate with the emotions of the masses. The unfolding narrative seems to delve into her life, relationships, and the societal expectations she faces as a woman of letters in a male-dominated environment.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Gilles de Claircœur as she arrives at the offices of the newspaper "Petit Quotidien", where her work has garnered both acclaim and ridicule. The story captures a moment of disappointment as the theatrical figure Marcel Fagueyrat is surprised to see that Gilles, not the grand hero he imagined, but rather a middle-aged woman, is the author behind the captivating stories. As she navigates her workplace, encounter with colleagues, and her aspirations, readers witness her resilience and the contrast between her perceived persona and the reality of her life as a content yet unconventional woman writer. The opening hints at her burgeoning success, her connections with her family, and a glimpse into the complexities of her character that will likely set the stage for deeper themes throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75214,500,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75214,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75214,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75215,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 64, No. 395, September, 1848" by Various is a periodical publication featuring a collection of essays, reviews, poems, and articles written in the mid-19th century. The magazine serves as a literary and political commentary reflecting the social, economic, and political issues of the time, particularly in Britain and Europe, amidst growing unrest and revolutions.   The opening of this volume begins with a review of the last parliamentary session, highlighting the intense political turbulence and economic distress faced during that time. The author critiques the government’s handling of an Irish rebellion, alongside rising insurrectionist sentiments fueled by commercial pressures and the consequences of free trade policies. Various events, such as uprisings in France and the discontent among the British working classes, set a backdrop for discussions on political responsibility, currency matters, and labor issues, indicating a period marked by upheaval and a call for thoughtful governance. The review sets a tone of urgency and frustration over the failures of the ruling class to address the critical challenges emerging in society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75215,500,'Reading ease score: 61.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75215,468);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75215,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75216,520,'"At the Library Table" by Adrian H. Joline is a collection of essays and reflections written in the early 20th century. The text explores the author''s passion for books, libraries, and literary figures, capturing the subtleties and nuances of a bibliophile''s existence. Through his keen observations, Joline reflects on the nature of book ownership, the significance of autographs, and the relationships that readers develop with their books and authors.   At the start of the book, the author introduces his musings while sitting at the library table, reflecting on the nature of book ownership and the culture surrounding books in society. He questions whether most people truly engage with their libraries, or if they simply enjoy the aesthetic and prestige of book possession. Joline discusses various perceptions of readers and their interests, from the average man’s indifference towards less popular literature to the fervent pursuit of autographs by collectors. This opening sets the stage for deeper explorations of literary life and personal anecdotes that provide a humorous and insightful critique of bookish culture. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75216,500,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75216,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75216,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75217,520,'"In the Camp of the Black Rider" by Capwell Wyckoff is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. This adventure story is aimed at young readers aged 12 to 16 and centers on two boys, Ted Thorn and Buck Dalton, who take charge of a camping trip for the Boys’ Club while tackling themes of camaraderie, leadership, and the thrill of the outdoors. The boys face challenges ranging from natural adventure to the eerie legends surrounding their campsite, which purportedly connects to the historic Black Riders of the Revolutionary War.  The opening of the book establishes a typical summer day in the inland town of Ridgefield, showcasing Ted and Buck preparing for their much-anticipated camping trip. As Ted enjoys a lunch with his family, he learns about his appointment to lead the camping expedition to the mysterious Black Riders’ Camp, which is rumored to be haunted. Intrigued, Ted sets out to explore the camp site and encounters a mysterious lantern in the mountains, leading to questions about who else might be nearby. The stage is set for an adventure filled with suspense, camaraderie, and possibly the supernatural as the boys prepare to lead the younger club members on their journey into the wild. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75217,500,'Reading ease score: 88.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75217,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75217,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75218,520,'"Secret of the Earth Star" by Henry Kuttner is a science fiction novel written in the early 1940s. The story revolves around a precious gem known as the Earth Star, which is entwined with themes of danger, intrigue, and identity as characters navigate their roles in a complex plot involving crime and power. The narrative introduces multiple characters, including Seth Martell and his sons, who become embroiled in the machinations surrounding the gem, which has implications beyond mere wealth.  At the start of the novel, the setting shifts between a luxurious business meeting in India and the subsequent chaos caused by the theft of the Earth Star. The characters include a Rajah who is desperate to acquire the jewel, a masked intruder known as the Merlin, and Seth Martell, a prominent figure entangled in a quest for justice amidst potential betrayal from within his own family. As tensions escalate, the story hints at deeper conflicts that intertwine personal motivations with broader geopolitical ambitions, paving the way for thrilling developments in the subterranean mysteries of Alu. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75218,500,'Reading ease score: 86.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75218,480);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75218,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75219,520,'"The Promise of the Bell: Christmas in Philadelphia" by Agnes Repplier is a reflective historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the significance of Christmas traditions and social customs in Philadelphia, intertwining the celebration of the holiday with the legacy of the Liberty Bell and the values of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Repplier captures the essence of a city rich in history and camaraderie, conveying how festive gatherings foster a sense of community.  In the narrative, Repplier delves into the interplay between social gatherings, celebration, and the pursuit of genuine happiness among Philadelphians. She illustrates the city''s evolution from its historical roots to the present day, highlighting the communal celebrations during Christmas—such as caroling and shared meals—that knit together the fabric of society. Through vivid descriptions of gatherings, traditions, and the poignant symbolism of the Liberty Bell, Repplier reflects on the changes that have occurred in societal values over time, while maintaining an optimistic view of the enduring spirit of goodwill and friendship among residents. Her insight into the past imbues the Christmas season with a sense of nostalgia and warmth, suggesting that even amidst modern challenges, the fundamental promise of the bell endures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75219,500,'Reading ease score: 55.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75219,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75219,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75220,520,'"Historias das Ilhas: (Reminiscencias dos Açores e da Madeira)" by Azevedo is a fictional work written in the late 19th century. This narrative appears to explore the social dynamics and complexities of relationships in the Azores and Madeira, focusing particularly on the themes of love, jealousy, and societal judgment. The opening introduces characters through a wedding ceremony, hinting at a mix of gossip, personal conflict, and the struggles of romance against familial expectations.  The beginning of the narrative paints a vivid picture of a wedding in the castle of São João Baptista, capturing the buzz of curiosity amongst soldiers, officers, and townsfolk as the central character, Jorge, marries Rosa, a much younger woman. Various characters express skepticism about this union, marked by gossip surrounding Rosa’s past and hints of jealousy from another suitor, Sergeant Luiz. As the celebration unfolds, it becomes evident that underlying tensions persist, suggesting looming challenges for the newlyweds in their marriage influenced by societal views and personal desires. This opening sets the stage for a blend of romantic entanglement and the harsh scrutiny of public opinion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75220,500,'Reading ease score: 55.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75220,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75220,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75221,520,'"Étude sur la Franc-Maçonnerie" by Félix Dupanloup is a critical examination of Freemasonry written in the late 19th century. The work explores the relationship between Freemasonry and Christianity, positing that Freemasonry fundamentally opposes Christian beliefs. Dupanloup aims to clarify misconceptions about Freemasonry''s true intentions and influence on contemporary society, particularly its role in political and social revolutions.  At the start of the text, the author expresses his long-standing interest in Freemasonry, particularly following a significant circular that led to its public rise in France. He outlines the growth of Freemasonry''s influence, citing examples of increased membership and its participation in societal change. Dupanloup raises critical questions regarding the compatibility of Freemasonry with Christianity, asserting that they are fundamentally at odds. Through analyses of official documents and speeches from Masonic leaders, he plans to expose what he believes are the deceptive claims of the Freemasons, ultimately concluding that a true Christian cannot be a Freemason. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75221,500,'Reading ease score: 64.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75221,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75221,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75222,520,'"The Draycott Murder Mystery" by Molly Thynne is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story unfolds in a small, isolated village in northern England, setting the stage for a suspenseful exploration of a murder case involving a woman found dead in a farmhouse. The central character so far is John Leslie, who discovers the body and becomes embroiled in the investigation, casting suspicion on himself.  The opening of the novel introduces a stormy evening in the village of Keys, where the violent weather sets a foreboding atmosphere as John Leslie returns home to find a woman dead in his sitting room. The narrative captures the initial tension as he grapples with the shocking sight, and it quickly escalates as the police arrive, leading to a series of inquiries into his alibi and the circumstances surrounding the woman''s death. Not only does the discovery raise questions about John''s innocence, but it also leaves readers wondering about the mysterious identity of the murdered woman, hinted to be connected to the local society. The unfolding drama promises intrigue and complexity, engaging readers with both the investigation and the interplay of trust among the characters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75222,500,'Reading ease score: 82.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75222,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75222,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75223,520,'"Avaruuden portilla: Runoja" by Väinö Siikaniemi is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. This work encompasses themes of nature, existence, and emotion, presenting profound reflections on the human experience against the backdrop of the cosmos. The collection features diverse poems that explore personal memories, seasonal changes, and cosmic connections, revealing the interplay of love, longing, and the beauty of the natural world.  The poems in "Avaruuden portilla" delve into various facets of life and the universe, showcasing the beauty of nature through vivid imagery and introspective language. For example, "Auringon maja" speaks to the unity and enchantment of the sunlit world, while "Morsian yö" personifies night as a beloved companion, bringing a sense of warmth and familiarity. Other poems, such as "Aallon kuolema," reflect on ephemeral moments and the passage of time, illustrating the transient nature of existence. Siikaniemi''s lyrical style invites readers to contemplate their own experiences and emotions, making this collection a deeply immersive and thought-provoking read. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75223,500,'Reading ease score: 50.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75223,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75224,520,'"Kultaviulu" by Ferenc Herczeg is a literary novel written in the early 20th century. The book unfolds against the backdrop of the socio-political turmoil of Europe, exploring the lives of its characters intertwined with the impending doom of war. The principal characters include Professor Stefan Arató, his wife Katalin, and the Arató twins, Peter and Pal, who grapple with personal emotions and societal changes as the specter of conflict looms over their tranquil lives.  The opening of "Kultaviulu" introduces readers to a picturesque scene outside a royal castle, with heavy clouds reflecting the tumultuous atmosphere. Professor Arató stands at the window, reflecting on his childhood memories of clouds, which were once his companions. The tranquility of family life is portrayed through the interactions of Katalin with her cat and her lively conversations with her military brothers-in-law. However, a tension grows as the characters share their light-hearted moments amidst an undercurrent of anxiety about the approaching war. The narrative hints at a profound disturbance in their lives as they overhear discussions of war, revealing their youthful excitement and naivety juxtaposed with the gravity of an uncertain future. This sets the stage for how their relationships and experiences will be shaped by the tumultuous events to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75224,500,'Reading ease score: 42.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75224,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75224,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75225,520,'"Mémoires d''une vieille fille" by René Bazin is a novel written in the early 20th century. This work reflects on the life experiences and thoughts of an unnamed narrator, a woman in her late thirties who identifies as a "vieille fille" (old maid). The narrative explores themes of altruism, social concern, and the complexities of female identity, particularly in relation to poverty and charity through the eyes of the narrator as she interacts with the less fortunate.  At the start of the novel, the narrator introduces herself and her perspective on life as an unattached woman, embracing her age and freedom while juxtaposing it against societal expectations. She articulates her commitment to helping the poor, finding fulfillment in acts of kindness and charity without the traditional attachments of marriage or motherhood. Through her reflections, we encounter her musings on the unconditional love and respect she seeks to offer those in need, as well as her observations on the lives of children growing up in hardship, notably a young girl named Georgette. The opening sets the stage for a deeper exploration of the struggles and joys within the lives of those in poverty, as seen from the eyes of someone who both empathizes with their plight and seeks to uplift their spirits through her actions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75225,500,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75225,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75225,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75226,520,'"Light Interviews with Shades" by Robert Webster Jones is a collection of humorous satirical interviews with historical and fictional characters, written in the early 20th century. The book features prominent figures such as Bluebeard, Queen Elizabeth, and others, as they candidly discuss various aspects of life, relationships, and society from their unique, and often comedic, perspectives.  The opening of the work introduces readers to the character of Bluebeard, who is presented as surprisingly amiable and self-reflective during an interview. The narrator, acting as a reporter, engages with Bluebeard about the reasons behind his notorious reputation for marital misdeeds, revealing a series of comedic anecdotes about his ex-wives and the misunderstandings that led him to his infamous path. As Bluebeard shares his stories, the tone sets a lighthearted and witty style that continues throughout the collection, as readers are invited to explore the thoughts and lives of various historical figures in an entertaining, if tongue-in-cheek, manner. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75226,500,'Reading ease score: 71.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75226,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75226,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75227,520,'"Hungarian Literature: An Historical & Critical Survey" by Emil Reich is a scholarly examination of Hungarian literature written in the late 19th century. This work aims to provide an in-depth historical overview and critical analysis of the significant movements, prominent figures, and cultural developments within Hungarian literature. The author''s intention is also to illuminate the unique traits of Hungarian literary expression within a broader European context, making it informative for readers unfamiliar with Magyar literary traditions.  At the start of the survey, Reich emphasizes the lack of recognition of Hungary''s rich literary history in the Anglophone world, despite the nation’s long-standing political and cultural significance in Europe. He discusses the historical context of the Magyars and their struggle to maintain cultural identity amid foreign influences. The opening chapters explore the early development of Hungarian literature, touching upon its oral traditions and the challenges posed by political upheavals and foreign domination. Additionally, Reich outlines the evolution of the Hungarian language, highlighting its distinctiveness and potential for literary creativity. Overall, the initial portion sets the stage for a comprehensive exploration of Hungary’s literary achievements and contributions, addressing both the challenges and triumphs of its writers through the ages. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75227,500,'Reading ease score: 56.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75227,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75227,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75228,520,'"Le roman de Joël" by Pierre Maël is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds in the picturesque setting of Saint-Malo, focusing on the dynamics between the kind-hearted doctor Hugh Le Budinio, his young nephew Joël, and the beautiful Maïna. The themes of familial bonds, affection, and the conflicts between duty and personal ambitions appear to be central to the narrative.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the fascinating characters, particularly the amiable Doctor Le Budinio, who has dedicated his life to caring for the less fortunate. The Old Doctor finds joy in simple tasks, like watering plants, which leads to a delightful encounter with his servant Tina. The dynamics shift with the arrival of Joël, who has just completed his medical studies, and the highly anticipated return of Maïna, his cousin, who represents a cherished presence in both their lives. As the warm familial atmosphere unfolds, hints of aspirations, love, and responsibilities emerge, setting the stage for deeper interactions and emotional developments throughout the book. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75228,500,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75228,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75229,520,'"The Flying Carpet" by Lady Cynthia Asquith is a collection of stories written in the early 20th century. The book features a variety of short narratives exploring the imagination and dreams of its characters, particularly through whimsical and magical themes. With contributions from multiple authors, it serves as a tapestry of literary styles and tales, hinting at both the ordinary and the fantastical.  At the start of the collection, the story titled "A Popular Personage at Home" introduces readers to a dog named Wessex as he reflects on his life and duties, embodying a sense of tranquility and loyalty. The prose paints vivid imagery of his surroundings and his perceptions of the world. Following this, "Thomas Henry Titt" by Adelaide Phillpotts tells the tale of a young boy longing to see the sea for the first time. His imagination comes alive through his dreams and a mystical experience involving a candle, leading to a poignant yet uplifting conclusion about realizing one''s dreams. The opening establishes a charming and imaginative tone that threads through the subsequent stories in the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75229,500,'Reading ease score: 79.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75229,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75229,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75230,520,'"The Doctor Looks at Literature: Psychological Studies of Life and Letters" by Joseph Collins is a collection of psychological essays written in the early 20th century. This work analyzes various literary figures through the lens of modern psychology, particularly focusing on how psychological concepts manifest in their works and characters. The book is likely intended for readers interested in the intersection of psychology and literature, as it explores how authors like James Joyce and Dostoevsky express complex human behaviors, emotions, and motivations through their writing.  At the start of this volume, Collins sets the foundation for a discussion on the role of psychology in fiction, asserting that true understanding of human life is best captured through literature rather than psychological theory alone. He emphasizes that psychology should serve as a tool for writers to better represent the inherent complexities of life instead of replacing the creative instincts that drive their narratives. Through an examination of how authors depict psychological nuances, Collins invites readers to consider the rich interplay between human consciousness and the literary expression of experience, foreshadowing detailed analyses of various renowned writers and their psychological insights throughout the book. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75230,500,'Reading ease score: 55.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75230,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75230,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75231,520,'"A Girl and Her Ways" by Amy Le Feuvre is a novel likely written during the late 19th century. The story revolves around the main character, Gentian, a spirited young woman navigating her newfound independence after her mother''s death. As she settles into her life in England, she must confront societal expectations, her personal ambitions, and her relationships with men who wish to manage her life.  The opening portion of the book introduces us to Thorold Holt, a somewhat solitary man dealing with the aftermath of his cousin''s death. He is approached by Miss Ward, a woman who seeks his assistance for Gentian, the daughter of a late friend, who is left without means after her mother''s passing. Gentian is depicted as determined and fiercely independent, preferring to forge her own path in life. As Thorold learns more about Gentian''s ambitions and her idea of driving a car for hire, he grapples with both concern for her future and his own feelings about taking on the responsibilities of familial ties. The stage is set for a dynamic exploration of Gentian''s journey towards self-sufficiency and her relationships with those around her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75231,500,'Reading ease score: 92.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75231,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75231,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75232,520,'"The Unseen Universe: or, Physical Speculations on a Future State" by B. Stewart and P. G. Tait is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. The book delves into the intersection of science, philosophy, and religion, exploring the concept of existence beyond the visible universe and rational justifications for beliefs in an afterlife. It seeks to reconcile prevalent scientific theories with religious beliefs regarding immortality, offering an in-depth examination of various cultural perspectives on the unseen aspects of existence.  At the start of the book, the authors address the increasing skepticism towards the idea of a future existence and aim to counter this with a firm argument for the compatibility of science and belief in an afterlife. They categorize thinkers into those who focus on the mechanics of the universe (the "How") and those concerned with purpose and meaning (the "Why"). The introduction sets the stage for an extensive discussion on historical beliefs regarding the afterlife from various cultures, including ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, Greek, and Eastern philosophies, culminating in a critique of materialism and a plea for a deeper understanding of the spiritual dimensions of existence that science can neither confirm nor deny. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75232,500,'Reading ease score: 49.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75232,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75232,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75233,520,'"Dragon Moon" by Henry Kuttner is a novelette of lost Atlantis written during the early 20th century. The story follows Elak, a descendant of the royal line of Cyrena, as he battles the malevolent entity known as Karkora, the Pallid One, who has possessed Sepher, the king of Kiriath. Delving into themes of magic, ancient legends, and personal destiny, the narrative weaves together adventure and the supernatural against a richly imagined backdrop of Atlantis.  In the tale, Elak faces numerous challenges as he discovers the truth about Karkora and the fate of his family. After a tumultuous journey that leads him to encounter allies, including Aynger of Amenalk and Mayana, a sea-witch, he learns that Karkora is an abomination created from the dark sorcery of Erykion. Armed with newfound strength and a magical talisman, Elak ultimately confronts Karkora and Sepher in a climactic battle for the fate of Cyrena. With themes of sacrifice and the struggle against malevolent forces, Kuttner crafts a gripping narrative that showcases the hero''s journey in a world where magic reigns and ancient evils lurk. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75233,500,'Reading ease score: 86.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75233,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75234,520,'"Who He?" by Alfred Bester is a novel written in the mid-20th century. It delves into the chaotic world of television production, focusing on the lives of its characters amidst the tumultuous backdrop of New York City, where the line between reality and illusion becomes blurred. The narrative centers around Jake Lennox, a troubled script-writer who juggles the pressures of his career and personal demons while navigating the complex relationships with those in his sphere.  The opening of "Who He?" introduces readers to Jake Lennox as he grapples with existential dread, revealing his cynical yet naive perception of the entertainment industry. Describing his life as a continuous tightrope walk, Lennox provides insight into the intriguing and unstable relationships he shares with his colleagues on a struggling television show, "Who He?". The narrative captures a vivid portrayal of life on Manhattan Island—referred to as The Rock—where ambition and vulnerability intertwine, leading to a dramatic event during a live performance that sets the stage for a deeper exploration of character identities and hidden fears. As the story unfolds, it becomes evident that Lennox''s journey reflects both personal and professional turmoil, with a mysterious incident looming in the shadows of his chaotic world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75234,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Who_He%3F',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75234,500,'Reading ease score: 87.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75234,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75234,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75235,520,'"L''appel de la route" by Édouard Estaunié is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set against the backdrop of post-World War I France, the book explores the lives of three childhood friends who reconnect after the war at a café, contemplating their divergent paths and the lingering effects of their shared experiences. The narrative delves into profound themes of suffering, the search for meaning in life, and the complexities of human relationships.  The opening of this novel introduces us to three friends, each carrying distinct backgrounds and memories shaped by their experiences during the war. Gathered at a café in 1918, they engage in a seemingly trivial conversation which quickly deepens into a philosophical discussion about the nature of suffering and the human condition. Tensions arise as they reflect on the impacts of their wartime experiences, leading to an urge to share personal anecdotes that may illuminate their current predicaments. As they grapple with the unsettling realities of peace, their conversations hint at past traumas and future conflicts, setting the stage for a rich exploration of their intertwined fates. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75235,500,'Reading ease score: 74.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75235,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75235,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75236,520,'"Magdolna és egyéb elbeszélések" by Ferenc Molnár is a collection of fictional narratives written in the late 19th century. The book focuses on various characters, with a central emphasis on the character of Magdolna, who grapples with her identity and emotions as she navigates relationships, societal expectations, and personal desires.   The opening portion introduces us to Magdolna, who reflects on her life while sitting on her balcony on a starry spring evening. We learn about her mother’s recent death, which has left her feeling lost and longing for guidance. The narrative explores her tumultuous journey toward self-discovery, revealing her struggles with the reality of her marriage and her encounters with an idealized romantic figure. This initial glimpse lays the groundwork for Magdolna''s internal conflict and sets the tone for a tale filled with emotional depth and complex character dynamics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75236,500,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75236,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75236,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75237,520,'"There Was Once a Slave: The Heroic Story of Frederick Douglass" by Shirley Graham is a historical account written in the mid-20th century. The book recounts the life of Frederick Douglass, a prominent abolitionist, orator, and writer who escaped from slavery and became a leading figure in the fight for civil rights for African Americans. The narrative delves into Douglass’s harrowing experiences as a slave and his pursuit of freedom.  At the start of the story, we are introduced to Frederick Douglass as he reflects on his early life and painful memories of slavery. His narrative begins in the swamps of Chesapeake Bay, detailing his initial understanding of his status as a slave and the chaotic environment around him. It describes his childhood marked by separation from his mother and the brutal realities of being raised like cattle for labor. As he comes of age, Douglass''s desire for knowledge ignites a profound yearning for freedom. This opening sets the stage for an exploration of his struggles and resilience as he confronts the oppressive forces of slavery, culminating in his quest for liberation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75237,500,'Reading ease score: 84.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75237,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75237,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75238,520,'"The Motion Picture Chums'' New Idea: Or, The First Educational Photo Playhouse" by Victor Appleton is a children''s adventure novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a group of boys, known as the Motion Picture Chums, who embark on an ambitious project to establish an educational film theater in Boston. The novel explores their challenges and strategic thinking in the business world of early cinema, emphasizing themes of friendship, creativity, and perseverance.  At the start of the book, Frank Durham, a key member of the group, proposes a groundbreaking idea to his friends for a new photo playhouse solely dedicated to educational films. They are excited by the prospect and quickly discuss the potential business opportunities. Frank describes his encounter with Professor Achilles Barrington, an eccentric but brilliant scientist who has formulated a plan for educational films and is seeking partners to execute it. The group eagerly anticipates the professor''s arrival to explore the feasibility of his innovative venture, setting the stage for an array of adventures and dilemmas in the quest for success in the film industry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75238,500,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75238,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75238,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75239,520,'"Aubrey Beardsley" by Haldane MacFall is a biographical account written in the early 20th century. The book delves into the life of the brilliant yet tragic artist Aubrey Beardsley, known for his striking illustrations and bold aesthetic style. It explores his rise to fame, the challenges he faced due to his frail health and the turbulent artistic environment of the 1890s in England.   At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Beardsley''s origins, illuminating his early life and family background in Brighton. The opening section unfolds a vivid picture of Beardsley as a sensitive and precocious child, showcasing his artistic inclinations and foreshadowing his tumultuous journey through art and society. MacFall sets the stage for the remarkable and often tragic trajectory of Beardsley’s life, hinting at the conflicts he would encounter in his pursuit of creative expression amidst the looming presence of death due to his illness. This early portion establishes both the man and the artist, offering a glimpse into the complexities that shaped Beardsley’s character and work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75239,500,'Reading ease score: 59.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75239,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75239,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75240,520,'"Suspense" by Isabel Ostrander is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story introduces us to Betty Shaw, a young woman with a distinct scar on her face who seeks employment as a companion to a wealthy woman, Mrs. Atterbury. As Betty navigates her new environment, she is drawn into a web of mystery and intrigue that hints at darker undertones beneath the surface of her seemingly simple quest for a stable life.  The opening of the book reveals Betty''s vulnerability and determination as she responds to an advertisement for companionship, bringing her to the opulent yet eerie home of Mrs. Atterbury, who is shrouded in secrets. Upon arriving, Betty senses an atmosphere of tension and danger. The narrative foreshadows potential conflict as Betty becomes aware that she is being surveilled, suggesting that her innocence may put her at risk. The introduction of other characters, including mysterious visitors and the shadow of a recent murder, establishes a tone of suspense that compels the reader to ponder the true nature of the relationships within this household and the secrets that linger within its walls. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75240,500,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75240,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75240,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75241,520,'"Kuninkaallinen lootus: Ynnä muita intialaisia satuja" by Anonymous is a collection of Indian fairy tales written in the early 20th century. The book presents enchanting stories that often feature elements of magical realism, including mystical characters, challenges to overcome, and the triumph of good over evil. The themes are deeply rooted in traditional folklore, capturing the essence of moral lessons and cultural values.  The collection includes several tales, the first being about two princesses, Gulga and Kandra, who escape their cruel stepmother and find refuge in an abandoned castle belonging to a giant. As they settle into their new home, their lives take a dramatic turn when Gulga is captured by a prince, leading Kandra on a desperate journey to find her sister. In the second story, "Lingo and the Giant," a young boy named Lingo is raised by animals in the forest and, through his adventures, leads his brothers to capture a giant''s daughters. Finally, the story of the "Brilliant Princess" follows a prince who seeks the ethereal beauty of Princess Labam, with the help of magical beings and his ingenuity. Each tale weaves together themes of love, courage, and magic, highlighting the richness of Indian storytelling traditions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75241,500,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75241,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75241,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75242,520,'"Tuomivaaran tuolta puolen" by Toivo Lyy is a poetry collection written in the early 20th century. This book features a variety of lyrical poems that reflect on nature, love, and life experiences, likely drawing from Finnish folklore and cultural motifs.  The poems in this collection are rich with imagery and explore themes of nature, relationships, and existential reflections. With a style reminiscent of traditional Finnish folk poetry, Lyy crafts verses that evoke the beauty of the Finnish landscape while also delving into personal and universal emotions. The structure includes different characters and scenarios, portraying the interplay between humans and nature. Each poem is a glimpse into the poet''s world, connecting the reader to the intimate and sometimes tumultuous experiences of life, such as love''s joys and sorrows, as well as the deep appreciation of the natural environment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75242,500,'Reading ease score: 42.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75242,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75242,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75243,520,'"The Hell Bomb" by William L. Laurence is a scientific publication written in the early 1950s. This work delves into the development, implications, and technicalities of the hydrogen bomb, a weapon that marked a significant advancement in nuclear technology during the post-war era. Laurence presents a detailed examination of the scientific principles underlying this powerful bomb, while also addressing the moral and political concerns surrounding its existence and potential use.  At the start of "The Hell Bomb," the author shares personal anecdotes from his time at Los Alamos during the final stages of the atomic bomb project and the initial discussions on hydrogen fusion bombs. He recounts conversations with leading scientists, including Professor Hans A. Bethe, revealing the astonishing potential of the hydrogen bomb to unleash energy levels far beyond that of conventional atomic bombs. Laurence emphasizes the dangers of nuclear proliferation and the ethical imperative for an informed public discourse on such destructive technology, providing historical context and a cautionary insight into the future of warfare in the nuclear age. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75243,500,'Reading ease score: 53.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75243,475);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75243,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75244,520,'"The Shadow of the Wolf" by R. Austin Freeman is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story begins with a tense and intriguing setup involving Daniel Purcell and his companion Varney, who are engaged in a risky scheme involving the forgery of banknotes. The plot unfolds within a maritime backdrop as the two men navigate both the physical sea and the murky waters of their criminal endeavors, hinting at themes of betrayal and moral ambiguity.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to Purcell and Varney aboard a yacht, where a conversation about their illicit activities begins to reveal the strained dynamics of their partnership. The dialog quickly escalates from casual banter regarding their personal lives, specifically how both men are connected to a woman named Maggie, to darker implications of their crime. Varney grapples with his growing resentment towards Purcell and contemplates drastic actions, foreshadowing significant twists to come. The opening chapters establish a gripping atmosphere intertwined with deception, setting the stage for an exploration of consequences that follow betrayal and the actions of desperate individuals caught in their schemes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75244,500,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75244,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75244,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75245,520,'"Manuel de politique musulmane" by Georges Aimel is a treatise exploring the complexities of Islamic politics written in the early 20th century. This work reflects on ten years of firsthand experience in Muslim territories, focusing particularly on the Maghreb, and aims to shed light on the necessity for a nuanced understanding and a pragmatic approach to Muslim policy from a French perspective. The text delves into various political, cultural, and social dynamics affecting Islamic societies during a period marked by significant upheaval and change, particularly after World War I.  The opening of the book sets the stage for a comprehensive analysis of the state of Islam and its interactions with European powers, particularly through the lens of France''s colonial involvement in North Africa. Aimel discusses the longstanding misconceptions about Islam as merely a primitive and unyielding force, countering that it is a dynamic civilization capable of evolution. He outlines the historical context leading up to the post-war period, touching on nationalistic movements emerging within Muslim societies and the perception of Western dominance. There is an emphasis on understanding the intricacies of Muslim identity, governance, and the potential for political cooperation or resistance against colonial authority, suggesting a path towards a more effective French policy in the region. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75245,500,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75245,468);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75245,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75246,520,'"It Pays to Advertise: A Farcical Fact in Three Acts" by Roi Cooper Megrue and Walter Hackett is a comedic play written in the early 20th century. The narrative follows Rodney Martin, the son of a wealthy soap manufacturer, as he embarks on a journey to establish his own soap business, the "Thirteen Soap," in a bid to prove his capabilities and win over the affections of his secretary, Mary Grayson. The play satirizes the world of advertising, exploring themes of ambition, family dynamics, and the superficiality that can accompany commercial success.  At the start of the play, we are introduced to a humorous scenario in which Mary, Mr. Martin''s secretary, tries to manage the chaotic situations that arise in the Martin household. Rodney, having yet to take his father''s expectations seriously, flirts with the idea of romance with Mary while meandering in his entrepreneurial endeavors. The scene quickly sets up the tension between the father-son duo, as Cyrus Martin is determined to instill a work ethic in his son, unaware that his own son is secretly planning to compete against him in the soap business. Meanwhile, the entrance of the Countess, eager to negotiate business for soap distribution in France, adds an extra layer of intrigue, foreshadowing the combination of romance and business that will unfold as Rodney strives to prove himself. The opening establishes a farcical tone, promising laughter and insightful commentary on the nature of desire and ambition in a commercial world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75246,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/It_Pays_to_Advertise_(play)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75246,500,'Reading ease score: 87.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75246,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75246,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75247,520,'"The Coming of Peace: A Family Catastrophe" by Gerhart Hauptmann is a modern play likely written in the late 19th century. This work focuses on the complex and tumultuous interactions within the Scholz family as they prepare for a Christmas gathering, revealing their internal struggles and relational tensions. The play delves into themes of familial strife, reconciliation, and the heavy burdens of the past that each character must navigate.  The opening of the play introduces us to a fraught Christmas Eve at the Scholz family home. Characters such as Mrs. Scholz, who portrays an anxious and restless mother, and Dr. Fritz Scholz, a father burdened by his past, set the tone for a gathering clouded by unresolved tensions. There is an impending arrival of the couple’s estranged son, William, alongside his siblings who exhibit a mix of emotions ranging from excitement to dread. As each character interacts, their distinct personalities and grievances surface, hinting at a deeper family conflict that has led to years of estrangement. The scene is rich with tension, foreshadowing the emotional turmoil and potential for reconciliation that will unfold as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75247,500,'Reading ease score: 86.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75247,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75247,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75248,520,'"Pegasus: problems of transportation" by Colonel J. F. C. Fuller is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book explores the evolution of transportation, particularly focusing on new forms of movement that do not rely on existing road infrastructures. Fuller''s work emphasizes the importance of movement in civilization and the potential of roadless vehicles for economic growth and addressing issues like overpopulation.  In this work, Fuller examines the history of transportation, particularly the impact of the railway, and argues for the significance of developing roadless vehicles, which could revolutionize transport in underdeveloped areas. He discusses various historical figures and innovations related to transportation, including George Stephenson and his contributions to rail travel. The author posits that the future demands solutions to the pressing problems of overpopulation and unemployment, and he believes that roadless vehicles can mitigate these challenges by facilitating movement in areas without adequate roads, thereby increasing economic prosperity and efficiency. Through a combination of historical analysis and forward-looking insights, Fuller outlines the crucial relationship between movement and progress in society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75248,500,'Reading ease score: 66.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75248,437);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75248,446);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57752,'fi.wikipedia','https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matti_Kivek%C3%A4s');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57759,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Delbert_Gann');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57762,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maurice_Maindron');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57765,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Scudamore');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57784,'fi.wikipedia','https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toivo_Lyy');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57788,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferenc_Herczeg');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57789,'ca.wikipedia','https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joaquim_Riera_i_Bertran');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57790,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Chapman_(pastor)');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57792,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colette_Yver');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57799,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Snelgrave');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57800,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edith_S%C3%B6dergran');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57806,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emil_Fischer');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57802,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Bergmann');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57805,'sv.wikipedia','https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oscar_Berg_(politiker)');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57809,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89mile_Masqueray');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57814,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Guillaume');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57817,'de.wikipedia','https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brigitte_Augusti');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57818,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woldemar_Friedrich');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57820,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Thomason');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57821,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joan_Lowell');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57825,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herman_Umbstaetter');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57830,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prince_Ferdinand,_Duke_of_Montpensier');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57831,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luigi_Federico_Menabrea');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57832,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ada_Lovelace');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57834,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annie_Franc%C3%A9-Harrar');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57835,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willis_Luther_Moore');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57838,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Carver_(academic)');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57846,'it.wikipedia','https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giuseppe_Guerzoni');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57849,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gertrudis_G%C3%B3mez_de_Avellaneda');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57850,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abigail_Scott_Duniway');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57851,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patricio_de_la_Escosura');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57852,'ca.wikipedia','https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antoni_de_Bofarull_i_Broc%C3%A0');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57853,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Clinton_Jackson');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57856,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maynard_Shipley');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57857,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herbert_Henry_Gowen');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57858,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruth_Collie');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57859,'fi.wikipedia','https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niilo_Kallio');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57862,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conrado_Walter_Massaguer');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57867,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Faulkner');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57869,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_William_Tyrrell');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57865,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Gurney');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57876,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ella_Lonn');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57875,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Green');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57878,'fr.wikipedia','https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victor_Giraud');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57879,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_Barman');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57880,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicolas_de_Bl%C3%A9gny');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57882,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esther_Forbes');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57883,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Gibbings');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57884,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Stevenson');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57887,'pt.wikipedia','https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celso_Herm%C3%ADnio');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57889,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%A4in%C3%B6_Siikaniemi');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57890,'fi.wikipedia','https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%A4in%C3%B6_Pesola');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57892,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lady_Cynthia_Asquith');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57893,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Guthrie_Tait');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57894,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shirley_Graham_Du_Bois');
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57896,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_L._Laurence');
