insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76074,520,'"A loyal lass :  A story of the Niagara campaign" by Amy Ella Blanchard is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. Set along the Niagara frontier during the War of 1812, it follows spirited Marianne Reyburn as her American father and Canadian kin find themselves on opposing sides, testing family bonds and personal courage. The story blends domestic life, frontier adventure, and wartime peril, focusing on divided loyalties, friendship, and quiet acts of bravery.  The opening of the novel introduces Marianne in the woods near Lewiston, where talk of war with Britain is in the air and a Yankee pedler sells her a curious Indian bracelet. Crossing the river to her French grandmother’s Canadian home, she learns her brother Royal has enlisted with General Brock’s forces, setting him against their American father. Back home, Marianne gently breaks the news to her father and soon witnesses the Battle of Queenston Heights; her father is wounded and—through Royal’s intervention—brought to the Canadian side, where Marianne and her mother go to nurse him. As she secretly plots his escape, Marianne falls into a bog, is rescued by young British soldier Jack Silverthorn, and is taken to his family’s farm, where she unexpectedly meets Royal and Jack’s kind sisters; tensions flare over wartime talk, but new friendships form as she spends the night under their roof. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76074,908,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76074,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76074,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76074,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76075,520,'"The Little Review, September 1916 (Vol. 3, No. 6) by Various" is a literary and arts periodical issue produced in the early 20th century. It mixes criticism, reportage, and editorial with pieces on literature, drama, music, and art, while also engaging in pointed social and political commentary. The issue’s driving topic is the San Francisco Preparedness Day bombing case, framed within a wider clash between labor, capital, and civil liberties.  This number opens with a wry, self-satiric glimpse of the editor’s “light occupations,” then turns to major coverage of the bombing case: an impassioned argument for the defendants’ innocence, a scathing critique of organized labor’s hesitations, and a detailed fact sheet with an appeal for defense funds. A brisk miscellany column offers cultural notes on books, performance, and public figures. A “New York Letter” highlights a new experimental playhouse and sharply critiques a recent fantasy play’s dramaturgy, acting, music, and design. “The Reader Critic” gathers fiery letters that debate the magazine’s artistic standards, the value of free verse, and the balance between perfection and striving, with tart editorial replies. The issue concludes with an update on a vers libre contest, brief advertisements, and a transcriber’s note. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76075,908,'Reading ease score: 70.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76075,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76076,520,'"Affirmations" by Havelock Ellis is a collection of literary-critical essays written in the late 19th century. It uses writers and saints as occasions for probing the “literature of life,” testing moral ideas and cultural assumptions rather than judging art for art’s sake. The pieces engage the most questionable aspects of conduct and belief to state a few enduring “affirmations,” while pressing readers to form their own.  The opening of the work presents a preface and a long study of Nietzsche. Ellis contrasts a pure art-literature that raises no ethical questions with a literature close to life where morality must be examined, and he announces his intent to offer personal affirmations against the era’s self-congratulation. He then traces Nietzsche’s career—ancestry and austere youth, Pforta training, early devotion to Schopenhauer and Wagner, rise as a philologist, The Birth of Tragedy, the Bayreuth crisis and break with Wagner amid worsening health, the freethinking aphoristic middle period, the later “immoralist” doctrines, and the final mental collapse. Along the way he distils Nietzsche’s key ideas: Dionysian affirmation, the attack on Christianity and pity, conscience as tradition, the call to hardness and self-mastery, and the contrast between “slave” and “master” moralities, set against sharp national judgments and admiration for French clarity. He closes this opening section by valuing the middle Nietzsche most, proposing the dancer as his guiding image, and treating philosophy as personal psychology rather than a universal system. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76076,908,'Reading ease score: 53.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76077,520,'"Probation" by Jessie Fothergill is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in industrial Lancashire on the eve of the cotton famine, it explores duty, class, and conscience through the principled mill overlooker Myles Heywood and the cultured, half-foreign Adrienne Blisset, with an absentee owner, Sebastian Mallory, and a vulgar heir, Frederick Spenceley, sharpening conflicts. Expect factory life rendered from the loom-floor up, social critique of wealth and responsibility, and a developing cross-class attraction tempered by pride and politics.  The opening of Probation plunges into a Thanshope weaving shed, introducing Myles—a skilled, proud overlooker—amid the deafening machines and Friday pay. Shop-floor talk skewers the absent mill owner as American war threatens cotton supply. Home reveals Myles’s household: sturdy sister Mary, sensitive invalid brother Edmund, and a querulous mother. Wandering to the town-hall library, Myles notices the Oakenrod (Mallory’s house) and intervenes when Frederick Spenceley pesters a young woman reader. She is Adrienne Blisset, who is gathering musical references for her infirm uncle’s ambitious book on Art and Civilisation; Myles escorts her to their lonely house, Stonegate, on Mallory land. A visit follows: Mr. Blisset’s paralysis, austere intellect, and Adrienne’s diligent service emerge, while Myles’s fascination—and the novel’s social and moral stakes—quietly take root. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76077,908,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76077,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76077,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76077,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76078,520,'"Német maszlag, török áfium : regény két részben" by Géza Laczkó is a novel written in the early 20th century. It is a historical tale of the Zrínyi family amid the seventeenth-century Habsburg–Ottoman frontier, following the formation of Zrínyi Miklós from child to disciplined Catholic noble and emerging commander. Themes include confessional politics, loyalty and statecraft, and the peril of “German” and “Turkish” influences pulling the country apart.  The opening of the novel plunges into a Muraköz skirmish where little Miklós watches his father, Zrínyi György, fight the Turks, then shifts to Csáktornya, where Magdaléna and a comic friar fuss over lineage and faith. György rides to serve the emperor under Wallenstein, clashes with the general’s cold prudence, and dies after being sidelined to a plague-ridden post, leaving Miklós and Péter as orphans. The boys are placed with Jesuits in Graz: Miklós excels, Péter resists; a triumphalist school play trumpets Catholic heroism. Pázmány Péter blesses Miklós and imparts a political testament: unite the kingdom in Catholicism yet beware Habsburg overreach, keep Erdély as a bulwark. Miklós travels to Venice and Rome with Senkviczy, wrestles with temptation, reads Tasso and strategists, meets the Pope, then returns home to organize outposts and lead raids—sparking brutal tit-for-tat depredations and official censure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76078,908,'Reading ease score: 63.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76078,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76078,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76079,520,'"A child''s guide to reading" by John Albert Macy is a literary guide and reading manual written in the early 20th century. Aimed at helping young readers (and those who guide them) move beyond ephemeral “juveniles” to the enduring riches of literature, it explains why and how to read, champions fiction, poetry, history, and essays, and offers practical lists and examples to steer taste toward the greats without being rigid or priggish.  The opening of the work compares a good literary guide to a seasoned Maine woods guide: helpful but never a substitute for the reader’s own effort, judgment, and joy in discovery. It rejects fixed “Hundred Best Books” lists, praises the dictionary, and shows how chance encounters (Mill finding Wordsworth) can shape a life, while cautioning readers to choose books that awaken their best selves. It then argues for reading as contact with the best minds—countering “book-learning” skeptics with vivid examples (Lincoln with Shakespeare, Grant with Scott and Cooper, Napoleon’s omnivorous reading, Franklin’s formative authors)—and urges attentive, sometimes re-read, even memorized engagement. Finally it begins its long section on fiction: defending the novel (with Jane Austen’s wit), explaining plot, character, description, and style through Thackeray’s Henry Esmond, stressing the moral responsibility of storytellers (via Trollope), dissolving the romance vs. realism quarrel with examples from Scott, Dickens, and others, warning against inauthentic dialogue and flabby description, and offering calm, practical advice on choosing novels (and short stories) before launching into a substantial, varied reading list. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76079,908,'Reading ease score: 62.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76080,520,'"Muistojen mailta :  Runoja by Hilja Liinamaa-Pärssinen" is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The book fuses political memory with intimate lyric, moving between prison cells, winter darkness, and the consolations of nature, work, and love. Its likely topic is the aftermath of civil strife and imprisonment, the suffering of the marginalized, and a stubborn hope for renewal and freedom.  The book opens with stark prison poems that address a Red prisoner and depict executions, night terrors, and the machinery of confinement. It then offers compassionate portraits of fellow sufferers—young comrades, orphans, an old inmate, a fallen woman—and a haunting Good Friday service of shamed women. Later cycles turn to grief and yearning, meditations in silence, childhood and spring visions, and a defiant call to tear down walls, endure torture, and rise again; Time and Hunger appear as allegories, and a mother urges her son toward justice. In freer verse the voice breathes open air: red dreams, spring birds and first anemones, orchards and the dignity of free work, a sleeping nation, and a vow to join the struggle. The closing garden of memories forms an intimate love sequence that moves from rapture to loss, carrying the book from trauma toward resilience and both inner and outer freedom. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76080,908,'Reading ease score: 53.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76080,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76081,520,'"Sydämet :  Kertomuksia" by Maila Talvio is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book appears to probe the inner life of “hearts,” dwelling on art, love, suffering, and the quiet heroism of ordinary people. Its opening tale centers on touring pianist Heinz Blume and his wife Marianne in a northern provincial town, exploring the ecstasy and pain of performance, the strain on family, and the audience’s hungry devotion. Expect intimate, psychologically attentive vignettes set against a vivid social milieu.  The opening of the collection follows a single concert night that swells from backstage nerves into public rapture. Pianist Heinz Blume, oversensitive to his instrument, quarrels about playing a Steinway, then—urged by his calm wife—moves the hall with Chopin and Beethoven, igniting fervor among townspeople: a weary schoolmaster, an aged doctor adrift after an accident, a garrulous impresario, a hopeful young composer, and civic notables. After an awkward celebratory supper, talk of his “insured” hands, and tender, practical goodbyes, Marianne departs before dawn with their three small children. Left alone in the icy street, Blume slips, suffers a head injury, and is carried to care as the town hums with alarm and rumor—an abrupt break that lays bare the fragility behind the evening’s triumph. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76081,908,'Reading ease score: 52.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76081,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76082,520,'"One jump ahead by Ray Humphreys" is a Western short story with a crime‑mystery bent, written in the late 1920s. It follows a small‑town sheriff and his deputy as they investigate a mysterious box dug up beneath a bridge, a puzzle that stirs rumors of buried loot and raises the stakes amid local political pressures.  Paroled rustler Manuel Perez comes to Sheriff Joe Cook seeking help just as old Grandpa McMeel reports two men digging under the Third Street bridge, a sight that Fred Speers hurriedly “confirms.” The officers find a trench and a dragged trail that vanishes in the creek, and later the sheriff discovers a wallet with a clipping about an old bank robbery—apparently proof the stolen loot was recovered. With the commissioners fretting over elections, the case seems hopeless, but Shorty McKay grows suspicious: Perez’s early release timing doesn’t match his story, the drag marks could hide a peg‑leg footprint, and Speers’s planted clipping points to a staged misdirection. Checking the newspaper files, Shorty finds the clipping freshly cut, then confronts Perez at his new ranch job and recovers a bundle of cash. The truth emerges: Perez and Speers dug up Perez’s own rustling proceeds buried years earlier, not bank loot. Shorty lays out the scheme, the money is seized, and the sheriff’s standing—and reelection prospects—are saved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76082,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76083,520,'"Pursuit by Andrew A. Caffrey" is an aviation war short story written in the late 1920s. Set in World War I, it follows American airmen flying observation and two-seat “balloon strafer” missions, exploring the tension between strict discipline and audacious initiative in combat.  The story centers on Jack Langdon, a hotshot pursuit pilot reassigned to lumbering DH two-seaters, who refuses to abandon fighter tactics. After a fatal low-level strafe with observer Akeley, Langdon finds a kindred spirit in ace gunner Samter; together they tweak their DH for maneuverability and rack up daring balloon and aircraft kills. Their aggressive style puts them at odds with Lieutenant Charles Surry Mudd, a meticulous, cautious flight leader whose reports clash with Major Mack’s practical tolerance for results. During a Meuse River mission, Samter is wounded, Langdon’s gun jams, and he cripples an enemy by ramming a wing—only to lose lift himself. In a startling act of comradeship, Mudd slides his own wing under Langdon’s to help him limp home, then is killed by ground fire before reaching safety. The tale closes with grudging respect and a reframing of Mudd’s pride—he “fell flying valiantly”—underscoring courage, ingenuity, and the complicated loyalties of air war. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76083,908,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76083,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76083,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76083,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76084,520,'"The Nowadays Girls in the Adirondacks: or, The Deserted Bungalow on Saranac…" by Gertrude Calvert Hall is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows four spirited friends—Sylvia Pursell, Rose Bancroft, Alice Harrow, and Hazel “Baby” Reed—who call themselves the Nowadays Club and set off for an Adirondack summer with their dignified chaperon, Mrs. Theodora Leigh Brownley. Woven through their vacation plans is Sylvia’s worry for her brother Roy, recovering at Saranac after a breakdown tied to a lost chemical formula, hinting at mystery alongside outdoor fun. Expect dances, canoeing, mishaps, and budding friendships as the girls make their way toward Saranac and the promise of a deeper intrigue.  The opening of the story introduces the club, their lively personalities, and Sylvia’s plan for an Adirondack tour that will end near Roy’s sanitarium at Saranac Lake. A troubling telegram about Roy is softened by a later reassuring call, and the girls plunge into New York shopping and theater before departing with Aunt Theodora. On the train they befriend Jack Benton, detour for a sociable week in Syracuse, then reach Old Forge. There, a ballroom mishap sees Alice’s emerald ring lost and dramatically recovered, a canoe collision tips Alice into the lake (rescued by practiced oarsmen), and a golf drive knocks a passerby—but only his pride—before the girls try their luck fishing. Finally, they set off by guide-boat through the Fulton Chain toward Raquette Lake, stopping at the first carry as their journey—and the larger mystery—begins to take shape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76084,908,'Reading ease score: 83.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76085,520,'"Rival ocean divers :  or, The search for a sunken treasure" by Roy Rockwood is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows teen diver Dave Fearless and his father Amos as they join Captain Broadbeam’s government ship, the Swallow, to locate a fortune lost with the wrecked Happy Hour in the Pacific, while the wealthy Lemuel Hankers and his son Bart mount a rival hunt aboard the Raven. Expect inventive deep-sea gear (notably a new diving bell), fierce marine creatures, South Seas hazards, and a bitter family rivalry over a long-lost inheritance.  The opening of this novel sets the stakes and the chase in motion: Dave learns of the treasure and the Happy Hour’s probable resting place; Bart Hankers eavesdrops and his father rushes to get a head start, even planting a hireling to frame Dave in Washington (a ploy that fails). Dave and Amos ship on the Swallow, descend in the bell, and survive a harrowing encounter with monstrous deep-sea fish, followed by a shark attack at the surface. A violent storm strikes; lightning leaves Amos alive but unable to speak. At San Murio Island, Dave and young engineer Bob Vilett go ashore, fall into underground caverns, and Dave is captured after overhearing Lemuel Hankers and his man Rackley plotting to sabotage the Swallow by infiltrating her as a “castaway.” Bob rescues Dave from a jaguar; the pair endure a gorilla attack, then reach the beach only to be seized by islanders occupied with butchering a stranded whale. The section closes with the boys bound inland as a group approaches, including a white man disguised among the natives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76085,908,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76085,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76085,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76085,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76085,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76086,520,'"Garry Grayson''s football rivals :  or, The secret of the stolen signals." by Elmer A. Dawson is a juvenile sports novel written in the early 20th century. Centered on high-school football, it follows quarterback Garry Grayson as he leads Lenox High amid fierce rivalries, risky pranks, and a brewing mystery tied to stolen signals. Friends rally around him while local toughs, notably Sandy Podder, scheme to trip him up on and off the field.  The opening of the story introduces Garry and his close-knit crew—Rooster, Nick, Bill, and Ted—whose fishing trip turns dramatic when a storm forces a mail plane to crash onto a hut; they rescue the pilot, Ross Yates, and meet his fast-driving son, Cal. Back in town, Garry tangles with the crabby Jacob Fish (and befriends his fierce dog) before school starts and Coach Phillips names the revamped team: Garry at quarterback and captain, Rooster at fullback, Nick at right half, with Bill and Ted on the scrubs. After spirited practices, Lenox edges Pawling when Garry’s late line plunges deliver a comeback win. Unease follows as prankish vandalism hits the school and, after the boys free a cow at dusk and glimpse shadowy figures, the next morning a cow turns up in the Latin classroom, hinting that mischief—and rivalry—are escalating. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76086,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76086,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76086,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76086,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76086,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76087,520,'"A day in old Rome : a picture of Roman life" by William Stearns Davis is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It offers a guided, daylong portrait of everyday life in Imperial Rome, centering on the city and its people during Hadrian’s era. Drawing on Latin authors and modern scholarship, it recreates streets, homes, customs, institutions, entertainments, and beliefs to show how Romans of many ranks actually lived.  The opening of the book lays out the premise: a hypothetical visit to Rome in the second century, chosen for its prosperity under Hadrian and for the city’s near-complete architectural form. The preface explains the method, sources, and focus on urban life rather than the emperor, and the contents map a comprehensive tour. The first chapters sketch Rome’s setting and look—its geography, the Tiber, the Seven Hills, and the city’s materials and methods (tufa, travertine, marble, and especially concrete), as well as Roman adaptations of Greek forms with arches, vaults, and triumphal architecture. The narrative then drops into a typical street near the Esquiline to observe narrow lanes, stepping stones, shops, shrines, and fountains; the mixed crowds and constant Greek alongside Latin; the bustle, noise, and public processions; wall notices and graffiti; and the dangers and discomforts of night. Finally, it turns to housing: the prevalence of multi-story insulae versus the few domus mansions, building codes and risks, a sample tenement’s layout and rents, the plight of attic tenants and moving day, and the mitigations of urban poverty—ending just as the account prepares to contrast this with a senatorial home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76087,908,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76087,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76087,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76088,520,'A tükör – Szegény kicsi Jula – Borzhistória by Mária Berde is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. It blends legend and village folklore with psychological realism, using a magical mirror and a rumored “fairy gate” to frame tales of desire, innocence, and fate. The pieces center on a European antiquarian, the harem girl Kandazé and the youth Timur, and a poor mountain child, Jula.  The opening of the collection first follows A tükör: a European scholar buys an antique mirror in Istanbul, hears its Baghdadi origin myth, and at midnight the glass reveals the past—Kandazé, promised to the caliph, secretly loves Timur; their flight on the Tigris ends in betrayal and loss when Timur sacrifices her for the mirror and is himself claimed by the river, while the mirror later shatters in the scholar’s room, sobering his skepticism. The scene then shifts to Szegény kicsi Jula, a harsh mountain village where poverty and folk belief shape life: a wise-woman, Ágota, trades in cures and tales, the priest counters superstition, and little Jula yearns to be “innocent,” making small sacrifices to atone for imagined faults. After a brutal winter and late spring, Jula helps Ágota move to her forest hut and, drawn by Ágota’s stories of the Tündérkapu, slips away with a flower-filled cup toward the basalt “fairy gate” at dusk. The excerpt closes as she reaches the silent stone arch. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76088,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76089,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 1/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. It fictionalizes the confessions and rise-and-fall of Emma Lyon (Lady Hamilton), shifting from poverty and beauty to influence and remorse. Framed as a priest discovering her deathbed memoir, the story foregrounds Emma’s voice amid admirals, queens, and scandal. It will appeal to readers who enjoy intimate portraits of famous figures and the perilous currents of ambition.  The opening of the narrative sets a wintry scene in northern France, where a priest is led to a seaside hut to console a dying Englishwoman attended by her daughter. Surrounded by the contrasting signs of luxury and want—including portraits of a decorated one-eyed naval hero and a radiant young woman—the invalid begs for divine mercy, reveals herself as Lady Hamilton, and gives the priest a key to her manuscript, “My Life.” He returns with the sacraments, baptizes her, and she dies peacefully; the text then shifts to her memoir. Emma recalls a childhood of hardship in Wales, tending sheep with her dog Black, a brief lift into a girls’ school through a patron’s gift, and the shame of being cast out when he dies. As a nursery governess in a rigid Puritan household, she discovers the sea and meets the painter Romney and the worldly Arabella, who both dangle London’s promise—money for posing and a companion’s post. Torn between warnings and desire, encouraged by her bold friend Amy and a lad named Dick, Emma resolves to flee: she writes farewell letters and, at midnight, slips toward the garden gate to begin her escape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76089,908,'Reading ease score: 49.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76089,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76089,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76090,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 2/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a fictionalized memoir written in the mid-19th century. It follows Emma Lyonna’s self-told ascent from humble beginnings into the glittering yet precarious world of London and Paris, driven by beauty, mimic talent, and romances with influential men. Early on, the narrative centers on her ties to the courteous naval officer Sir John Payne and the passionate aristocrat Harry Featherson, as she tests her power over hearts through poetry, theater, and charm.  The opening of this memoir presents Emma’s candid confession of being Sir John Payne’s mistress, her life of luxury in Piccadilly, and her discovery of a compelling stage persona through Shakespeare—especially her spellbinding Ophelia and later the balcony and dawn scenes of Romeo and Juliet. A private performance brings Harry Featherson into her orbit; Emma recognizes in his voice the mysterious “Romeo” who once spoke to her unseen, and their chemistry is immediate. When Admiralty orders summon Sir John away, he magnanimously steps aside, and Emma and Harry become lovers. They plunge into a high-burnished life of salons, gambling, and Epsom races, culminating in an insult from Emma’s former schoolmates and a duel in which Harry wounds Lord Camberwell. Installed at Up-Park, they spend lavishly until creditors close in; Harry’s family forces him to India and to leave Emma, who receives only a farewell letter. Retreating to a modest cottage under an alias, she regains composure and resolves to return to London to reclaim what she can—arriving at the Piccadilly house just as she unexpectedly meets her old ally Amy Strong at the door. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76090,908,'Reading ease score: 50.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76090,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76090,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76090,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76090,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76091,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 3/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. It presents a first-person, novelized memoir of Emma Hamilton as she moves through Rome and Naples, observing clerical power, courtly intrigue, and high society. The focus rests on Emma and Sir William Hamilton, with vivid cameos of Pius VI, Cardinal Ruffo, and the flamboyant Lord Bristol, blending travel narrative, salon life, and scandal. The likely arc is the making of Emma’s public persona within the volatile Italian world just before great European upheavals.  The opening of the volume follows Emma’s journey to Rome, where she portrays Pope Pius VI’s self-regard, circles of gossip around the Braschi and Rezzonico families, and the rigid, fearful etiquette of Roman salons. She attends a disputation that the Pope abruptly quits, meets the witty cardinal de Bernis, and relays sharp anecdotes: the melting of Spanish coin for papal profit, a notorious inheritance case, and the fevered adoration of the castrato Veluti backstage. A street robbery leads to a papally sanctioned act of self-defense; then the narrative shifts into travel scenes along the Appian Way and across the Pontine Marshes, where Monsignor Ruffo appears doing a humane deed, before arrival in Naples. There Emma introduces the eccentric Lord Bristol as her “cavalier servente,” sketches the local diplomatic cast (the indolent Portuguese envoy, the forthright Austrian ambassador, and a Tuscan gossip-monger), contrasts doctors Cotugno and Gatti, and opens onto Neapolitan court politics around Queen Maria Carolina, Acton, and King Ferdinand. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76091,908,'Reading ease score: 44.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76091,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76091,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76092,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 4/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. Told in the voice of Emma, Lady Hamilton, it traces her intimacy with Queen Maria Carolina of Naples and her entanglement in court intrigue as the French Revolution gathers force. The cast includes King Ferdinand, the minister Acton, and Prince Caramanico, as private passions collide with political maneuvering. Expect a blend of confession, seduction, and statecraft in the Neapolitan court.  The opening of the narrative follows Emma’s summons to the royal apartments, where Queen Maria Carolina treats her with startling familiarity: they dress alike, share confidences, and the queen reveals a fervent, jealous attachment to Emma alongside memories of her true love, Prince Caramanico, and disdain for both husband and current favorite, Acton. Emma witnesses the queen’s secret cache of tokens and letters, then dazzles a select salon with performances—first a Sapphic hymn, then a haunting, mimed Ophelia—deepening the queen’s possessive affection. News of the Bastille’s fall intrudes, and the focus shifts to politics: Acton’s anti-French stance, freemasonic currents in Naples, and the growing revolutionary contagion. The queen coordinates with Vienna, plots dynastic marriages, and supports plans akin to the later Varennes flight, while Emma becomes her trusted confidante. After a Vienna–Rome journey, the queen returns buoyed by hopes of a coalition against France, and the court moves toward war preparations and tighter surveillance at home, even as King Ferdinand’s character is sketched as impulsive and unmartial. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76092,908,'Reading ease score: 48.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76092,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76092,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76092,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76093,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 5/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. Told in the first person by Emma Lyonna (Lady Hamilton), it interweaves romance, politics, and war as she recounts her connection with Admiral Nelson and her entanglement in the Neapolitan court during the French Revolutionary upheavals. The story centers on Emma, Nelson, Queen Maria Carolina, King Ferdinand, and Sir William Hamilton, moving between royal favor, espionage, and crackdowns on revolutionaries.  The opening of the book frames Emma’s fascination with Nelson, then swiftly recounts his rough, ambitious rise at sea and his triumphant reception in Naples. As news of the French Revolution darkens the court—especially after Marie Antoinette’s execution—Maria Carolina vows vengeance; reports arrive of Toulon’s fall, attributed to a young officer named Bonaparte, and Captain Caracciolo brings grim details. The king postures and evades responsibility, while the regime seizes church goods and bank funds, and a sacrilegious incident at the Carmine leads to the execution of a likely madman, inflaming tensions. Amid this, Nelson loses an eye at Calvi; a spectacular Vesuvian eruption strikes terror in Naples, and a mysterious stranger saves the queen and Emma from a runaway carriage. The section closes with the State Junta condemning three very young “Jacobins,” Emma pleading for mercy, and the queen quietly setting a plan in motion—arming Emma with a prison order and the address of a condemned youth’s father—just as Emma is sent out into the night to begin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76093,908,'Reading ease score: 51.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76093,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76093,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76093,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76094,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 6/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. Told as the first-person recollections of Emma, Lady Hamilton, it immerses readers in the political and emotional dramas surrounding the court of Naples during the French Revolution and the rise of Napoleon. The narrative centers on Emma’s entanglements with Queen Maria Carolina, Sir William Hamilton, and Admiral Horatio Nelson amid war and diplomacy. Expect an intimate, highly partisan view of sweeping European events filtered through a bold, self-aware heroine.  The opening of the work charts a rapid survey of French Republican victories after Robespierre, Bonaparte’s meteoric ascent and triumphs in Italy, and the mounting alarm at Naples that spurs fierce royalist proclamations, clerical mobilization, and repression. A detailed account of General Duphot’s killing in Rome—relayed via Joseph Bonaparte’s report—triggers French intervention, the proclamation of the Roman Republic, and Pope Pius VI’s departure. The focus then shifts to the sea: Nelson’s pursuit of the French fleet, his anxious letters to Emma, his covert resupply at Syracuse made possible through her influence, and the crushing victory at the Nile that sends Naples into raptures and showers Nelson with honors. It closes with preparations for his triumphal reception and Emma’s frank admission that the queen is enlisting her personal sway over Nelson for reasons of state, signaling how private passion will intersect with high politics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76094,908,'Reading ease score: 45.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76094,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76094,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76095,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 7/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. Told in the first person by Emma Hamilton, it dramatizes the Neapolitan court’s crisis during the revolutionary wars, intertwining state intrigue with her bond to Lord Nelson. The story centers on Queen Maria Carolina, King Ferdinand, Nelson, Sir William Hamilton, Cardinal Ruffo, and Admiral Caracciolo as monarchy, revolution, and counter-revolution collide. Expect a blend of intimate confession, political maneuvering, and sea-and-court drama.  The opening of the book follows Emma as she helps the queen secretly prepare the royal family’s flight from Naples, while Nelson organizes covert boat lifts and even a rediscovered sea tunnel to move treasure. After a tense, chaotic escape to HMS Vanguard and Nelson’s harsh orders to deny ships to the enemy, deputations beg the king to return in vain, and a brutal storm at sea claims the life of young Prince Alberto in Emma’s arms before the party reaches Palermo. There, amid the prince’s funeral, Dumas contrasts the gravity of events with Ferdinand’s trivial passions for hunting and cards, including comic scenes with the fiery President Cardillo. A grand council empowers Cardinal Ruffo as vicario generale with sweeping authority, and he raises a Sanfedista force in Calabria while Emma’s life in Palermo mixes fêtes, gambling, and a near-scandalous masquerade with Nelson. Reports of Ruffo’s advance—along with royal letters endorsing severe reprisals—and news from Troubridge’s naval operations close this initial section. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76095,908,'Reading ease score: 34.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76095,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76095,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76096,520,'"Memorie di Emma Lyonna, vol. 8/8" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. Cast as the first-person memoir of Emma Hamilton, it traces her intimate entanglement with Admiral Horatio Nelson and the Bourbon court of Naples amid war, diplomacy, and scandal at the dawn of the Napoleonic era. The focus is on power, loyalty, and reputation as Emma navigates sieges, royal favor, British command politics, and her fraught private life alongside Nelson.  The opening of this volume places Emma on board with Nelson during the brutal reckoning that follows the fall of the Neapolitan Republic: Nelson breaks with Cardinal Ruffo over honoring capitulations, the king arrives in the bay, and prisoners are held despite Ruffo’s protests. Emma then humanizes the chaos by saving a condemned sailor tied to her childhood, even as executions continue ashore. The narrative shifts to Palermo—royal gratitude, Nelson’s birthday praise from Queen Carolina, and a violent anti-Turkish riot that Nelson contains—before widening to Bonaparte’s return, the reshuffling of British command (Lord Keith), and Nelson’s capture of a French ship off Malta amid orders meant to separate him from Emma. Court favors, snubs over orders and decorations, and travel with the queen through Livorno during the shock of Marengo lead to a hard overland flight (Firenze–Ancona–Trieste) and refuge with a Russian squadron, then Vienna’s salons (Esterházy, Haydn) and the queen’s successful appeal to Russia that yields a Franco-Neapolitan armistice with amnesty. The section closes with Emma’s northward journey, vivid vignettes in Hamburg (a centuries-old wine, a meeting with Dumouriez), a roaring English welcome, and a raw, revealing scene of jealousy as she edges Lady Nelson aside at the moment of Nelson’s homecoming. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76096,908,'Reading ease score: 46.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76096,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76096,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76096,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76097,520,'"The art of writing & speaking the English language :  How to read and what to…." by Sherwin Cody is a guidebook on reading and literature written in the early 20th century. It aims to help the average reader choose, enjoy, and judge “the best” books efficiently, emphasizing pleasure, usefulness, and clear standards. The volume explains what makes poetry, essays, and novels good, and offers selective, practical recommendations (including how to approach Shakespeare) rather than long lists.  The opening of the book states its purpose: to guide busy, non-scholarly readers toward interesting, inspiring works and away from dutiful but lifeless “classics,” proposing three tests for literature—beauty, truth, and nobility—plus a balanced view of amusement as true recreation. It illustrates poetry’s aims through close readings (Tennyson for pure beauty, Shelley for beauty with thought, Longfellow for moral uplift, Browning for intellectual courage, Wordsworth for the union of all three). It defines the essay’s appeal—rhythmical prose, suggestive imagery, and especially humour as a health-giving corrective—showcased by a lively Lamb letter; then traces the novel from epic and stage to the modern, conversational “tavern tale,” laying out what makes a good novelist (sincerity, friend-like tone, characters proved by action) and comparing major figures (Shakespeare, Balzac, Thackeray, Dickens, Scott). A concise timeline of “landmarks” maps the Romantic and Realist movements in Britain and key American contributions (Irving, Poe, Longfellow, Hawthorne, etc.). Practical how-to sections follow: a method for reading poetry (start with a few beloved pieces; Longfellow as an entry, then Tennyson and Browning; selective lists across poets) and an accessible plan for studying Shakespeare (see performances when possible, then read selected plays—Merchant of Venice, Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, Lear, Othello, Macbeth, key comedies and histories—and the sonnets). The final lines begin a survey of great essayists (Bacon, Addison, Swift), signaling the next phase of the guide. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76097,908,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76097,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76097,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76097,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76098,520,'"Kleopatra :  Kleopatran, Egyptin kuningattaren elämä ja aika" by Weigall is a historical biography written in the early 20th century. It presents a reassessment of Cleopatra VII, challenging Roman-derived caricatures and focusing on her statecraft, personality, and role in the Mediterranean power game alongside Julius Caesar and Mark Antony.  The opening of the book sets out to correct biases in ancient sources, arguing that Cleopatra has been maligned by her enemies and should be judged as a capable, ambitious, and often admirable ruler. It sketches her likely appearance and powerful charm (especially her voice), emphasizes her multilingual intelligence, political resolve, and courage, and portrays her private life as centered on two major unions (with Caesar and Antony) and devoted motherhood rather than licentiousness. Her religiosity, taste for arts and sciences, and occasional ruthlessness are placed in the norms of her violent age. The narrative then shifts to a vivid portrait of Alexandria—its geography and climate, monumental harbors, Pharos lighthouse, palaces, Museum and Library, grand avenues, and the Serapeum—before characterizing its cosmopolitan, sharp-tongued, pleasure-loving yet commercially vital populace and the city’s pivotal place in the grain trade and Mediterranean world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76098,908,'Reading ease score: 14.9 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76098,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76098,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76098,664);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76099,520,'"Meidän Herramme pettäjä :  Kertomuksia valtameren kyntäjistä" by Jack London is a collection of sea stories written in the early 20th century. The tales center on the brutal, elemental life at sea—shipwrecks, Cape Horn gales, superstition, and grim moral tests—following sailors, captains, and ship’s boys in moments where courage and cruelty collide. Expect terse, hard-edged storytelling, stark irony, and vivid maritime detail rather than a single continuing protagonist.  The opening of the collection presents four stark sea pieces. First comes a “true story” of the Francis Spaight, where a capsized crew drifts starving until they force a rigged lottery and murder a defiant cabin boy—only to be sighted and rescued moments later. Next, aboard the Mary Rogers at Cape Horn, the hulking Captain Dan Cullen, obsessed with “keeping a westing,” refuses to heave to for a man overboard and later contrives a passenger’s death, coolly covering both in the log. Then a young hand on the Sophie Sutherland battles fo’c’sle superstition: after taking a dead man’s bunk he “sees” a ghost on night watch that proves to be a mast-shadow cast by the veiled moon. The final piece begins with a weary captain approaching Dublin Bay, pilot aboard and rain coming in, sketching the commercial grind before the excerpt cuts off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76099,908,'Reading ease score: 43.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76099,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76099,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76099,654);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58285,'fi.wikipedia','https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tauno_Kopra');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76100,520,'"Odeyne''s marriage" by Evelyn Everett-Green is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Odeyne Hamilton, a clergyman’s daughter who marries the charming, affluent, and somewhat impressionable Desmond St. Claire, and enters the world of The Chase—a country estate near London. The narrative weighs the pull of wealth, fashion, and pleasure against the steady, principled upbringing of a loving rectory home, with gambling and social display testing the couple’s ideals. Central figures shaping the new marriage include Desmond’s refined but worldly mother and sisters, and Odeyne’s devoted twin, Guy.  The opening of the novel sets Desmond’s wedding against family misgivings: his mother and sisters question his steadiness, while the lively Beatrice contrasts with the cooler Maud. We then see Odeyne’s tender farewell to her large Devon rectory household, her quiet resolve shaped by a heartfelt talk with Guy, and a happy village wedding. Early married days bring a surprise visit back home, the decision to take faithful Alice as maid, and the young wife’s first responsibilities—household prayers, furnishing Desmond’s study, and a gently strained first meeting with her mother-in-law and Maud. Introduced to society at Beatrice’s dinner, Odeyne shines, but a “little cloud” forms as Desmond’s casual betting and plans for Goodwood unsettle her; she goes, delights in the spectacle, yet remains troubled by the misery on its margins, even as Beatrice hints she should steer Desmond away from such scenes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76100,908,'Reading ease score: 78.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76100,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76100,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76100,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76101,520,'"The sacred theory of the Earth, Volume 2 (of 2) :  Containing an account of the…." by Thomas Burnet is a theological and natural-philosophical treatise written in the early 18th century. It investigates the prophesied burning of the present world, the natural and scriptural grounds for that event, and the subsequent “new heavens and new earth.” Framing the current Earth as a ruin to be purified and refashioned, it argues for a paradisiacal renewal and treats the Millennium and the future state of humankind.  The opening of this volume presents a courtly dedication that contrasts the grandeur of earthly dominion with the promised second Paradise after a purifying fire, followed by a preface that sets the aim: to explain the conflagration’s extent, causes, and manner, and the world’s renovation, in line with St. Peter and under Providence. An outline lists chapters on ancient testimonies, timing, causes and materials of the last fire, its progress, preceding signs, and then the birth, form, and inhabitants of the renewed world and the Millennium. The early chapters clarify that “world” means the sublunary Earth (not the heavens), that matter is not annihilated but its form dissolved, and that both classical authorities (especially the Stoics, with echoes from older Eastern traditions like the Phoenix emblem) and Scripture affirm a final judgment by fire. The text then argues the time cannot be fixed by astronomy or planetary conjunctions, critiques the “Great Year” and offers a natural reinterpretation of it, and notes that chronologies (sacred and profane) are uncertain. Turning to prophecy, it reviews the Jewish six-thousand-year tradition embraced by early Christian writers, yet shows how dating disagreements misled some to think the end was near, and concludes that apocalyptic periods (e.g., 1260 days) are indecisive without secure starting points. Overall, these opening sections establish the scope, sources, and method: reasoned inquiry anchored in Scripture, skeptical of astrological determinism, and cautious about timing while confident in the event and its redemptive purpose. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76101,908,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76101,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76101,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76102,520,'"Illustrations of political economy, Volume 9 (of 9)" by Harriet Martineau is a collection of didactic tales and essays on economics written in the early 19th century. It dramatizes how taxation, public debt, war finance, trade restrictions, and personal morality shape everyday lives, chiefly through the story of a London grocer’s family in Budge Row paired with essayistic dialogues that unpack the principles at stake. Readers can expect a blend of social fiction and plain-spoken economic argument aimed at showing how policy choices ripple through households and markets.  The opening of Illustrations of political economy, Volume 9 (of 9) follows the Farrers of Budge Row as Jane prepares for the return of her university-educated brother Henry, while their father exults over gains from a tontine and frets about war, taxes, and the national debt. Family tensions mount as the exciseman brother‑in‑law Peek boasts of his powers, Henry recoils from shopkeeping and consumption taxes’ effects on the poor, and Mr. Farrer tries to force him into the grocery. Henry leaves to earn by his pen; Mr. Farrer declines and dies on New Year’s Eve, prompting Jane’s struggle with avarice and Morgan the servant’s plain, steadying counsel. The section then shifts to Henry’s modest household with his French émigré wife Marie and her father, where their collaborative writing turns into clear debates on taxation (consumption versus income/property), smuggling, and the economic harms seen in Holland, France, Spain, and England, culminating in an argument that an equitable property tax and paying down the national debt would best relieve the industrious—setting the intellectual stakes for the tale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76102,908,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76103,520,'"Goethe''s literary essays: A selection in English" by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe is a collection of critical essays written in the late 18th to early 19th century. It gathers Goethe’s reflections on art, literature, and theatre, articulating a comprehensive aesthetics that ranges from architecture and classical sculpture to dramaturgy and criticism itself. The focus is on how beauty, character, form, and style interrelate, with a strong classical sensibility tempered by wide curiosity and practical judgment.  The opening of the collection frames Goethe as a preeminent critic through a chorus of admirers and a foreword by Viscount Haldane, who highlights Goethe’s breadth—from lyric poetry and natural observation to the philosophical reach of Faust—and urges readers to learn from his critical outlook. A detailed contents list maps the scope: theories of art and literature, essays on Shakespeare and other writers, and selected conversations. The first essays then set the program: a passionate defense of “German” architecture via Strasbourg Cathedral against formulaic classicism; an introduction to the Propylæa stressing the need to keep each art true to its own laws; and a searching analysis of the Laocoon that defines the highest aims of sculpture—living form, character, ideality, agreeableness, and beauty—while explaining how the chosen moment and composition temper pathos with harmony. Further pieces unfold as dialogues: a debate pitching “character” against “beauty” in ancient art, a discussion of truth versus plausibility on the stage (especially in opera), and precise definitions of simple imitation, manner, and style, with style crowned as the deepest, most knowing form of art. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76103,908,'Reading ease score: 55.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76104,520,'"Geschwister Rosenbrock" by Diedrich Speckmann is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a North German moor colony, it follows the orphaned siblings Gerd and Leidchen (Adelheid) as they grow up amid hard work, strict customs, and tight-knit neighborly life. The story contrasts Gerd’s dutiful, steady nature with Leidchen’s lively, strong-willed temperament and places them within village tensions, especially with the miller’s son Hermann, and under the eyes of old and new schoolmasters.  The opening of the novel shows a winter schoolday in Brunsode interrupted when Gerd and Leidchen are called to their dying mother, whose last words bind Gerd to watch over his sister; the neighbor women then keep vigil, prepare the body, and the community attends the funeral in Grünmoor. A new teacher arrives, a snowfall frames his lesson on the moor, and a small revolt over Leidchen’s name (refusing “Adelheid”) signals her spirit, while a snowball battle cements Gerd’s rivalry with the boastful Hermann. At home, with their stepbrother Jan’s new family, the siblings work hard; sent to fetch heather-straw by boat, they share a playful quarrel over a gifted chocolate, hinting at Hermann’s unwanted attention. Time shifts to Leidchen’s confirmation: spring brilliance, a visit to their mother’s grave, and the solemn procession. That afternoon, Gerd and Leidchen walk their fields and the cut-over moor, recalling family toil, planning the coming peat work, and quietly sensing her passage from childhood, ending with his cautious care as she longs to climb among the pines. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76104,908,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76104,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76104,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76105,520,'"A spectre of power" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in the Cherokee town of Great Tellico during the colonial struggle for influence, it follows a French officer and a Choctaw chief as they court Cherokee alliance—and collide with local custom and personal jealousy. The key figures are the French lieutenant Laroche, the Choctaw ambassador Mingo Push-koosh, the Cherokee leader Moy Toy, and his sister Akaluka (Eve), whose inadvertent acceptance of a gift sparks peril. Expect frontier statecraft, tense ceremonies, and a fragile balance between diplomacy and violence.  The beginning of the story introduces a Choctaw embassy—accompanied by Laroche—to Tellico, where elaborate Cherokee rites, dances, and a bear-hunt pantomime mark their reception. Laroche’s true task is to solve a supply problem: the impassable shoals on the Cherokee River; when he cannot, he proposes “barrier towns” and an overland portage to make French trade and munitions flow. A public sensation erupts when Akaluka dives into the river to save a drifting scarf from the embassy cargo, which Push-koosh treats as acceptance of his suit under Cherokee custom. Laroche urges delaying any marriage for political prudence; Push-koosh, consumed by jealousy, coldly declares he would kill a Cherokee wife if the tribes become enemies. Warned by Laroche, Moy Toy and the chiefs return the scarf, but Push-koosh, affronted, destroys the French powder, raises the war-brand, and his party massacres unsuspecting Tellico youths before fleeing. The opening closes with Laroche abandoned and under guard in Tellico, facing the wrath of a grieving, enraged town. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76105,908,'Reading ease score: 61.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76105,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76105,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76106,520,'"Kallilan talo :  Kaksinäytöksinen huvinäytelmä by Eva Hirn" is a two‑act stage comedy written in the early 20th century. It playfully explores life on a Finnish farm where urban ideals, romantic dreams, and scientific theories collide with the demands of practical agriculture, household management, and community values.  Antti and Elina have traded city life for their farm, Kallila, but the work goes awry under a blundering professor’s advice and a poetic trainee, Eero. Their agronomist son Oras and his capable wife Sylvia arrive, introduce order, machines, and sensible housekeeping, and transform the homestead. Eero and the daughter Lilja fall in love; he chooses schoolteaching over farming, channeling his idealism into the village children. The housekeeper Hilma briefly imagines herself engaged to the professor before he flees, and she happily pairs with the foreman Ilmari instead. Two years later the farm thrives: fields are productive, the home is practical and neat, and the family’s example lifts the whole community. The comedy celebrates knowledge put to use, cooperative work, and a warm, hopeful rural patriotism. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76106,908,'Reading ease score: 55.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76106,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76106,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76107,520,'"Roistoväkeä eli Ylemmistä ja alemmisto : Huvinäytelmä viidessä näytöksessä." by TH. Overskou is a comedic play written in the mid-19th century. It satirizes social climbing and the tensions between “upper” and “lower” classes in Copenhagen, centering on the cash-strapped clerk Johannes Vagtel, his status-conscious wife Kristine, their idealistic son August, their wealthy ward Mathilde Ström, the blunt book-peddler Pehr Qvit, the seaman Palle Blok and his daughter Grethe, the ambitious official Fredrik Dahl, and the oily Baron Lillie. Love across class lines and hypocrisy around money, respectability, and funerals drive the humor and conflict.  The opening of the play shows Vagtel and his wife squabbling over money before a social evening, while Vagtel recalls how his forthright friend Qvit secured him the post of treasurer for a burial fund and rails against wasteful customs, especially lavish funerals. Grethe, the Blok family’s daughter working as the Vagtels’ maid, is harshly treated by Kristine; Qvit and August defend her, and August quietly confesses his love, which Grethe returns. Palle Blok arrives to ask leave for Grethe to come home to celebrate a small windfall; after comic maneuvers—including Palle’s advice on taming a domineering spouse—Kristine relents, and we glimpse Fredrik Dahl’s awkward, concealed ties to Grethe and his growing regard for Mathilde. By the end of the first act Vagtel still hunts for money to fund the household’s appearances. Early in the second act, Baron Lillie pesters Grethe until Mathilde intervenes; Mathilde denies any wish to marry the baron and hatches a plan to visit Grethe’s family incognito, while Fredrik and Mathilde exchange constrained, revealing courtesies and Grethe warns Fredrik to skip the evening because someone there might recognize him—the tension cutting off mid-conversation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76107,908,'Reading ease score: 53.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76107,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76107,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76108,520,'The Salem horror by Henry Kuttner is a weird-fiction horror short story written in the early 20th century. It centers on the lingering curse of a Salem witch and the awakening of an eldritch force beneath an old house, blending occult lore, haunted history, and cosmic terror.  A popular novelist named Carson rents a decrepit Salem house once owned by the witch Abigail Prinn and discovers a hidden “Witch Room” whose mosaic floor acts as a psychic focus. Drawn to work there, he becomes subtly controlled, suffers lost memories and night terrors, and is likely compelled to un-stake Prinn’s grave. An occultist, Michael Leigh, warns that the room bridges thought and matter and that Prinn serves Nyogtha, a shapeless Dweller in Darkness sealed beneath an iron disk in the chamber. One night the withered witch emerges and begins to raise the black, gelatinous horror; Leigh bursts in, wielding a crux ansata, a forbidden incantation, and a rare elixir to drive the entity back and seal the pit. The aftermath leaves Carson alive but changed—his light romances abandoned for grim, rejected tales—and the final image is a withered claw protruding from the sealed disk, a chilling token that the evil is not entirely gone. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76108,908,'Reading ease score: 74.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76108,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76108,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76108,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76109,520,'"A photographic record of the Russo-Japanese war" by James H. Hare et al. is a pictorial history written in the early 20th century. It chronicles the 1904–1905 conflict between Japan and Russia through on-the-spot photographs and concise narrative, from the diplomatic rupture and surprise naval blows to the land campaigns in Korea and Manchuria and the siege of Port Arthur. The volume highlights Collier’s photographers working under tight censorship, yielding a rare visual record of strategy, logistics, and life at the front.  The opening of this volume explains why reliable day‑to‑day news was scarce despite many correspondents and introduces Collier’s exclusive photographic effort, spotlighting field work by James H. Hare, Robert L. Dunn, and others. It then outlines the causes of war—clashing aims in Korea and Manchuria—leading to Japan’s break in relations, the Chemulpo clash that sank the Variag and Korietz, and Togo’s night torpedo attack at Port Arthur, followed by swift Japanese mobilization and landings. Early chapters contrast Japanese preparedness with Russia’s distance and bottlenecks, notably the brutal winter crossings of Lake Baikal, while photo sequences trace Japan’s advance through Korea to Wiju and the organized crossing and victory at the Yalu. The narrative proceeds to the tightening on Port Arthur after Nanshan and to converging movements toward Liao‑Yang—captures of key passes like Motienling, Russian setbacks, and the buildup around Mukden—always anchored by images of troops, hospitals, supply lines, and captured guns. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76109,908,'Reading ease score: 31.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76109,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76109,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76110,520,'"Sämtliche Werke 17 : Onkelchens Traum und andere Humoresken" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky is a collection of humorous stories written in the mid-19th century. The volume gathers comic and satirical pieces, with Uncle’s Dream leading a small‑town social farce about status, gossip, and matrimonial scheming. Its central figures include the domineering society queen Marja Alexandrowna, her beautiful daughter Sina, the glib suitor Pawel Mosgljakov, and the decrepit Prince K., whose arrival stirs intrigue and opportunity.  The opening of the collection adds a brief foreword situating the first two comic tales alongside a later political satire, then launches into Uncle’s Dream. In the provincial town of Mordassoff, Marja Alexandrowna rules by fear and tact, while her amiable but useless husband is exiled to the estate and her celebrated daughter Sina faces whispered scandals. News erupts when the half-ruined Prince K.—a vain, over-cosmeticked relic now controlled by the managing Stepanida Matveyevna—suddenly appears at Marja Alexandrowna’s house after a roadside mishap, brought in by the chatty suitor Mosgljakov. A lively salon scene follows: Mosgljakov recounts the rescue, Sina coolly refuses to commit to his proposal, the addled prince misidentifies people and rambles charmingly, and Mosgljakov provocatively suggests marrying the prince to the clever widow Nastassja—an idea Marja Alexandrowna pointedly shuts down as the chapter closes with comic digressions about servants, ailments, and hydropathic cures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76110,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76110,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76110,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76110,650);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76111,520,'"Der Wobbly" by B. Traven is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows the itinerant worker Gerard Gale as he drifts into a multinational crew of down-and-out laborers picking cotton on a remote Mexican farm. Through heat, hunger, and exploitation, the story zeroes in on the economics of low-wage labor and the first sparks of worker solidarity that push the crew toward collective action.  The opening of the novel begins with a cotton-pickers’ song and a chance gathering at a desolate station, where Gale falls in with Antonio, Gonzalo, Sam Woe, and two Black Americans, Charley and Abraham, all bound for Mr. Shine’s plantation. After a grueling trek through bush and thirst, they reach the farm, sleep in a bare shack, and toil for meager piece-rates under swarms of insects and a chronic water shortage. Daily life is sketched in vivid detail—from cooking over campfires to Abraham’s small-time egg enterprise that both sustains and indebts the group—until the men calculate they cannot survive on the pay. They stage a brief, disciplined work stoppage; the boss relents, raises the rate (with back pay), and Gale, singled out as the lone white worker, receives a bit more. Soon after, an oil-camp manager needs a temporary driller, and Gale seizes the chance to leave the fields for steadier food, shelter, and work, closing the opening on a pivot from plantation labor to the oil frontier. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76111,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cotton-Pickers https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_Baumwollpfl%C3%BCcker',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76111,908,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76111,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76111,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76112,520,'"Vallisneria madness by Ralph Milne Farley" is a weird-fiction short story written in the early 20th century. It centers on the moonlit mating of the aquatic vallisneria plant and the spell it casts over a human observer, blending botanical lore with seductive illusion and perilous desire.  Tom Spencer visits Professor Gordon to witness the vallisneria’s annual blooming, despite a warning not to approach the narcotic mists of the garden pool. As the moon rises, Spencer sees towering, ethereal women and green-clad men enact a fatal courtship: the men strain for a kiss, their bodies wither, and the women, sated, sink back into the slime—save one unmated beauty. Compelled, Spencer reaches her, expecting doom; instead she yields, and a breeze reveals she is Natalie Gordon standing on a bench, not a deadly apparition. The vision dissolves, and the tale resolves in a human embrace rather than a sacrificial kiss. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76112,908,'Reading ease score: 71.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76112,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76112,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76112,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76113,520,'"The horror in the burying-ground by Hazel Heald and H. P. Lovecraft" is a short horror story written in the early 20th century. Told through the hushed gossip of a fading New England village, it dwells on fear, guilt, and the terror of premature burial. The likely topic is a double interment that may not be what it seems, and the way rumor and conscience turn a local tragedy into lingering dread.  In the dying town of Stillwater, Sophie Sprague lives under the shadow of her brutal brother Tom and the unwelcome attentions of Henry Thorndike, a disliked undertaker dabbling in experimental embalming. After one drunken spree Tom collapses and is declared dead by the near-senile doctor; during the preparation of the body, a convulsion causes Henry to inject himself with his own fluid. At Tom’s crowded funeral Henry collapses, gasping that his drug only mimics death and begging not to be buried, but he is pronounced dead and laid in the ground alongside Tom the same day. Johnny Dow, a half-wit who helped Henry, raves that both are alive, and that night Sophie twice screams as faint, far-off voices seem to accuse her and hint that she colluded to “get rid” of Tom before betraying Henry to the grave. From then on she shutters herself indoors while Johnny haunts the burying-ground, warning that the dead will speak and someday come for her—a lingering, suggestive horror the town’s whispers never let die. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76113,908,'Reading ease score: 76.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76113,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76113,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76113,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76114,520,'The artificial man by Clare Winger Harris is a science fiction short story written in the early 20th century. It examines the boundary between mind and body through radical prosthetics, asking whether identity survives when the flesh is replaced and warning how obsession can corrupt character.  Promising student-athlete George Gregory loses a leg in a game and, shaken in spirit, begins to equate physical loss with a loss of soul. After a later car crash takes an arm and damages his organs, he adopts artificial limbs and an artificial kidney, grows embittered, and turns against his fiancée Rosalind and his former friend, surgeon David Bell, whom she eventually marries. Determined to prove identity can persist on a “minimum” of flesh, George submits to multiple operations until he becomes a mechanized being with detachable limbs and a chest control board powering his movements. He returns to murder David, but the young interne Lucius Stevens and police break in; realizing the machine-man’s weakness lies in the control panel and his right hand, they disable him. Dying, George repents, admitting it was his mind—not his injuries—that doomed him, and the tale closes as a caution against letting despair and pride overpower the will to heal. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76114,908,'Reading ease score: 70.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76114,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76114,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76114,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76115,520,'"Picture stuff by Raoul Whitfield" is a pulp aviation adventure short story written in the late 1920s. It centers on barnstorming pilots hired for a newsreel, highlighting the perils of stunt flying, camera-ship coordination, and the pride and nerve that drive aerial daredevils.  Veteran pilot Russ Healy, soured on camera-ship work after a past near-fatal crash, is pressed by circus boss Bob Brooks into a wing-to-wing transfer stunt featuring fearless performer Joan West, with her fiancé Steve Lott flying the camera plane. At altitude, Joan climbs from a DeHaviland onto Russ’s patched-up Jenny—the “Old Lady”—just as the camera ship collides, crippling the D.H. and tangling with the Jenny. The pilots of the wrecked planes bail out, but Joan’s parachute is fouled, forcing her to cling to a wing loop. When the two locked aircraft spin apart, Russ throttles and steadies the battered Jenny and dead-sticks her to the field with Joan still on the wing. The footage is lost and two planes are gone, but Joan’s scorn turns to admiration, and Russ reveals he never meant to scare her—only to defend the Old Lady—concluding that picture work takes real nerve. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76115,908,'Reading ease score: 94.9 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76115,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76115,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76115,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76116,520,'The blue scarab by R. Austin Freeman is a collection of detective stories written in the early 20th century. The cases follow the medico-legal sleuth Dr. John Thorndyke and his colleague-narrator Dr. Jervis as they solve curious crimes with forensic science, precise observation, and ingenious reasoning. Expect rational puzzles tinged with antiquarian lore, family secrets, and cryptic clues.  The opening of this collection presents two cases. First, a rural robbery draws Thorndyke into the Blowgrave family’s legend of a vanished uncle and lost jewels: a deed-box is stolen during a decoy fire, its contents mysteriously returned except for a blue scarab; using the scarab’s “hieroglyphs,” Thorndyke deciphers English directions, corrects for compass variation, and locates a buried skeleton and a chest of gems, while unmasking a grasping cousin as the thief via typewriter and fingerprint clues. Next, an apparent suicide at a Margate boarding house turns suspicious when Jervis and a local doctor find white paint footprints of a barefoot intruder with no little toes and signs of entry by a stack-pipe; Jervis reasons toward a northern, possibly seafaring suspect (frost-bite or ergot past), with a Swedish visitor and the absent colonial-police husband as potential leads. After a tussle with the police over evidence, Jervis brings his photographs and deductions to London, where he and Thorndyke prepare a fuller, independent investigation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76116,908,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76117,520,'"The swimming baths of London by R. E. Dudgeon" is a pamphlet-length public health essay and urban survey written in the late 19th century. The book examines swimming as a hygienic exercise, critiques London’s bathing facilities, and argues for purpose-built open-air freshwater swimming baths as a civic necessity.  Dudgeon begins by explaining the health benefits, pleasures, and practical uses of swimming—especially in cool, open air, natural-temperature water—and clarifies common dangers and misconceptions (such as “cramp”) while urging prudent habits. He then surveys London’s cold plunge baths and numerous tepid indoor swimming baths in detail, noting dimensions, cleanliness, depth, lighting, ventilation, pricing, and shortcomings, and he criticizes the lack of secure changing spaces and true open-air options. Turning to the Serpentine and Victoria Park lakes, he describes their limited access and sanitary issues, before proposing large, well-designed open-air baths in several parks (including Hyde Park, Victoria Park, St. James’s, Regent’s Park, and Battersea), with ample depth, sun and air, constant water renewal, spring-boards, numbered lockable boxes, modest fees, and all-day opening. He calls for lifesaving instruction, urges proper provision for women swimmers, and challenges the automatic preference for sea-bathing, concluding that modern open-air freshwater baths would enhance health, recreation, and safety for Londoners. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76117,908,'Reading ease score: 66.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76118,520,'"Szegény emberek" by Zsigmond Móricz is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The volume portrays poor and ordinary people—peasants, families, and frontline soldiers—grappling with war, deprivation, and moral tests. Its opening focuses on András, a Hungarian infantryman, whose stubborn decency, quick wits, and uneasy conscience reveal the human cost of the Great War.  The opening of the collection follows András on a perilous WWI patrol after he refuses a sergeant’s stripe, senses that allied Croat positions have collapsed, and volunteers to scout “for mushrooms” with a handful of men. Crawling across exposed slopes under shellfire, the squad steadies itself with talk of providence (notably Medveczki’s calm faith), reaches their regiment for reinforcements, and then at nightfire holds an entire Russian assault at bay until help arrives. At dawn they enter a nearby village, where András disarms and calmly lines up more than a hundred Russian soldiers—moments that mix danger with unexpected fellow-feeling (handshakes before surrender). Threaded through is András’s gnawing worry over a letter about strife between his mother and wife, a feverish dream of their quarrel, and at the end his hard-won sense that what he truly sought amid heroics was inner peace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76118,908,'Reading ease score: 74.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76118,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76119,520,'"Hiljentykäämme: Puheita ja kertoelmia" by Maila Talvio is a collection of reflective addresses and short stories written in the early 20th century. The work meditates on silence, faith, death, and consolation, interweaving devotional essays with tender, often Christmas-themed narratives about families and ordinary people. Early pieces center on a grieving child of a deceased mother, a young shepherd named Phares, and a beloved uncle Jaakko-setä, all illustrating how quiet attention and love can transfigure fear and sorrow.  The opening of the collection moves from a contemplative essay to intimate tales. In Hiljentyminen, the narrator learns to “quiet” the soul through a searing encounter with a mother’s death, discovering a healing stillness at the threshold of eternity. Paimenet kedolla retells the Nativity from the boy Phares’s view, as angels announce peace and he chooses the shepherd’s calling over worldly power. Kirkkain lyhty shows three sisters facing their first Christmas without their mother until a letter recalls her image of death as an angel carrying the brightest lantern, which gently reframes their grief. Jouluvieras introduces Jaakko-setä, whose whimsical presence restores wonder to a household wrestling with cynicism about Christmas, culminating in his rain-soaked arrival and a rekindling of joy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76119,908,'Reading ease score: 43.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76120,520,'"Kotkanlento :  Viisilauluinen runoelma by V. Arti" is a lyrical narrative poem cycle written in the early 20th century. Composed as five “songs,” it traces a metaphysical flight of an eagle from a mountain toward the stars, meeting clouds, winds, northern lights, and thunder, and reflects on freedom, striving, moral law, and the limits of knowledge.  The poem begins with the eagle rising in autumn light, tempted by the stars’ promise and debating fear, fate, and mortality. In the cloud-realm, moonlit spirits invite it to dissolve into their easy brightness, but it continues upward. Higher still, the four winds sing rival doctrines—harsh vigilance, shared life and love, command and dominion, reason and law—while the eagle longs for a peace beyond strife. The northern lights become a tourney of swords teaching that steadiness, swiftness, straightness, and aiming above the fray win the day; the eagle slips through unharmed. In the final trial, thunder-giant faces encircle it, lightning speaking riddling counsels the eagle must grasp; after learning that one who is blinded must be led by heaven, it refuses a blind ascent, folds its wings, and plunges back toward the mountain, as the distant stars keep their secret. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76120,908,'Reading ease score: 61.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76120,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76121,520,'"Annie van Walen" by Henriëtte Rappard is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on the high‑spirited, motherless Annie, who leaves her country home to stay with her dignified Aunt Dora in the city while her father travels abroad. Among cousins—mischievous Tom, prim Coba and Laura, and timid little Tine—Annie navigates manners, friendship, school, and small moral tests. The tone is warm and instructive, with lively episodes that highlight character, courage, and kindness.  The opening of the story follows Annie learning to bicycle with her neighbor Paula, fretting over torn dresses and gentle scoldings from faithful nurse Mina, just as Aunt Dora arrives to announce Annie will lodge with her while Father goes to England. In the city, Annie meets energetic cousin Tom, admires his animals and the boys’ “fort” at the family’s country place Rustoord, and shows pluck during their mock battles—especially when little Tine is briefly carried off and cleverly rescued. A bird‑catching subplot reveals Tom’s good heart when he takes the blame to save a worker’s son, until Annie explains the truth to Uncle Stubbens. A festive outing brings school friends into the fort game; back at school Annie’s soft spot for a weak classmate gets her caught for whispering answers, and on the way home she and a gymnasium boy, Frans, spot Tine being led off by a stranger posing as an “uncle” and intervene, sending the man fleeing. The section closes with Aunt Dora warming to Annie’s friend Paula through a family connection, Mina moving to help Annie’s grandmother, and Annie returning home anxious to explain her school trouble. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76121,908,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76121,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76121,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76122,520,'"Little Miss Weezy" by Penn Shirley is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. It follows the high-spirited toddler Louise “Weezy” Rowe through a string of domestic adventures with her family and neighbors, blending humor with gentle moral lessons. The vignettes spotlight Weezy’s mischief and charm alongside the foibles and growth of her siblings, parents, and kindly Uncle Doctor, with affectionate attention to everyday life and the virtues of honesty, obedience, and kindness. Readers who enjoy warm family stories and lively child viewpoints will find it playful and tender.  The opening of the story introduces Weezy’s nickname and home circle, then sweeps through a series of comic scrapes: she locks the maid out while the wash boils over, disrupts church by serenading the hymn with “Little Sally Walker,” and later follows a beggar child and gets lost before a policeman and the girl help her home. She and a helper, Ellen, trigger a memorable moment when a pickle turns up in the teapot at a minister’s dinner; she climbs a clock to steal the desk key and cuts paper dolls from a deed; she suffers the mumps while braiding her uncle’s beard; and she inadvertently sends her father down the street with her yarn doll “Sambo” tied to his coat. Weezy “goes calling” with visiting-cards, returns in a delivery wagon with figs, and is wrongly suspected of taking a dime until it’s found. A parallel thread shows brother Kirke’s lapse and honest confession at school, while Weezy’s own judgment shines when she refuses a birthday drive until a “stealing apples” joke is cleared up. A winter visit to grandparents adds a schoolroom mix-up—promising “one slide” but “heeling and toeing” the snowy bank instead—before her father arrives to bring her home for Christmas, with a mysterious moving, musical present teased as the scene breaks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76122,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76122,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76122,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76122,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76123,520,'"A cityless and countryless world :  An outline of practical cooperative…." by Henry Olerich is a utopian novel written in the late 19th century. It presents a visionary program of “practical co‑operative individualism” through the account of a Martian visitor who contrasts his advanced, harmonious society with Earth’s wasteful cities and isolated farms. The work lays out a full social and economic design—large communal “big-houses,” electrified infrastructure, efficient agriculture, rational education, voluntary governance, and equitable sex relations and property norms—aimed at maximizing freedom, health, and happiness.  The opening of this work begins with a preface that applauds scientific achievements while indicting pervasive social evils, and declares the aim to outline a system uniting voluntary cooperation with individual liberty. The narrative then shifts to the exemplary Uwins household in the village of Dozen, where a charismatic stranger, Midith, arrives during a storm; he soon reveals he was born on Mars and, after winning the family’s trust, explains Mars–Earth differences, the feasibility of interplanetary travel, and offers a sharp critique of Earth’s poverty, exploitation, coercive government, money and land systems, gender inequities, schooling, and cruelty to animals. He expounds a Marsian worldview grounded in evolution and the nebular hypothesis, then sketches their living arrangements: no cities or countryside, but “big-houses” of about a thousand people set along electric motor-lines amid parks, gardens, and conservatories, with nearly all domestic and industrial functions powered by centralized engines. Early chapters also redefine wealth (healthy bodies and minds, material sufficiency, and mental riches) and begin a taxonomy of labor (productive, unproductive, destructive), before the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76123,908,'Reading ease score: 57.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76123,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76123,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76123,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76124,520,'"Rakkaus" by Frances Mary Peard is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set among English gentry and a village school, it centers on Dorothy Flemyng, a schoolmaster’s warm-hearted daughter, and Sir Jasper Harrington, whose ardor collides with class expectations and his commanding mother’s plans. The likely focus is a love-vs.-duty struggle, with Dorothy’s integrity and loyalty to her family tested against Jasper’s romantic impetuosity.  The opening of the novel sketches Herra Flemyng’s austere school and brings Dorothy vividly to life as a kind, spirited protector of the weak, adored by her pupils, including young Stephen Harrington. Sir Jasper encounters Dorothy on a country road and impulsively confesses his love; she admits her feelings but refuses to accept him, foreseeing Lady Harrington’s disapproval. Jasper pleads with his mother, who softens yet proposes hard terms: Dorothy must sever ties with her background and her father should leave the district—conditions Dorothy firmly rejects. The rift deepens as Stephen is withdrawn from the school, and Dorothy endures quiet heartbreak, culminating in a tense church encounter that underscores the social divide. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76124,908,'Reading ease score: 40.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76124,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76124,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76124,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76125,520,'"Matin, Kaisun ja kissan retket :  y.m. lastenrunoja by Antti Rytkönen" is a collection of children’s poems written in the early 20th century. The book centers on young friends and their animal companions in Finnish nature, mixing playful moments with gentle danger; its likely topic is the joys, trials, and small moral lessons of childhood friendship and the turning seasons.  In the main cycle, siblings Matti and Kaisu and their sleek black cat set off on a spring ski outing, delight in gathering willow catkins, and rescue Kaisu when she falls into a hidden meltwater pit; later a fierce dog attacks, the cat bravely drives it off but is injured, and at home it is nursed with coffee, bandages, and quiet until it heals. The companion piece, Tuulikki ja Topi, follows a girl and her steadfast grey dog from a carefree summer to schooltime: Topi trails her to the station, panics at the roaring train, and is later found battered and bandaged, leading Tuulikki to urge prudence and to value the safety of home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76125,908,'Reading ease score: 51.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76125,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76125,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76126,520,'"Oakleigh" by Ellen Douglas Deland is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in a Massachusetts household, it follows the Franklin children—earnest Edith, spirited Cynthia, enterprising Jack, and the younger Janet and Willy—as they cope with loss, responsibility, and the upheaval of their father’s remarriage to Hester Gordon. Domestic comedy, small-town social life, and youthful schemes (notably Jack’s poultry-incubator enterprise) shape a warm, gently humorous family story.  The opening of Oakleigh introduces the Franklins’ home and rhythms: motherless Edith manages the house, while twins Jack and Cynthia debate Jack’s plan to raise prize chickens with an incubator. Aunt Betsey Trinkett breezes in, funds the scheme, and unwittingly inspires Cynthia’s prank—an impersonation that leads to a gossip-fueled revelation that Mr. Franklin is likely to remarry. A disastrous meddling by the little ones ruins the first hatch, and Mr. Franklin confirms his engagement to Hester Gordon. The marriage soon follows; Cynthia embraces the kind new stepmother while Edith resists, even as Hester brings practical help (a new horse and cart) and cheer. A village tennis tournament, the arrival of Hester’s outspoken brother Neal, and his partnership with Jack on the poultry venture set the stage for family adjustments and future complications. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76126,908,'Reading ease score: 83.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76126,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76126,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76126,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76127,520,'"Duar the accursed by Clifford Ball" is a sword-and-sorcery fantasy short story written in the early 20th century. It centers on a barbarian adventurer entangled with a proud queen, a demon-guarded tower, and a sinister jewel, exploring fate, power, and the pull between human love and cosmic destiny.  Captured by Queen Nione of Ygoth, the scarred warrior Duar is cast into the Pits, where the sorceress Shar—claiming ties to an ancient Elder Race and to Duar’s forgotten past—frees him and urges him to seek the Rose of Gaon in the Black Tower. Duar slips from his cell, confronts Nione in her chambers, and persuades her to guide him past the city’s guards. In the tower’s depths he battles an invisible force amid heaps of skeletons drawn to the jewel’s fatal lure, and, prompted by Shar, shatters the Rose, dispelling the demon that fed on it. Shar reveals that Duar bears Elder blood and once served as a high priest, pleading for him to remember and join her in reclaiming the world. He cannot, and chooses instead the mortal path—returning to Nione—while Shar’s fading whisper reminds him of the greater dominion he has refused. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76127,908,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76127,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76127,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76127,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76127,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76128,520,'"Anton''s last dream by Edwin Baird" is a science fiction short story written in the early 20th century. It explores a chemist’s triumphant invention of invisibility and the darker human currents it uncovers—jealousy, betrayal, and vengeance.  Anton Slezak, a wealthy, celebrated chemist who believes any dream can be made real, secretly perfects an invisible dye and renders himself unseen. Testing his success, he follows a coded knock to a hotel room and witnesses his young wife Zora in a passionate rendezvous with his nephew Robin. Speaking from invisibility, he reveals his presence, blocks their escape, and shoots them both, then calmly waits and turns the gun on himself as others break in. The story fuses scientific wonder with a stark, fatal end, showing how a visionary experiment becomes the instrument of tragic retribution. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76128,908,'Reading ease score: 84.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76128,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76128,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76128,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76129,520,'Mårbacka by Selma Lagerlöf is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It offers affectionate, clear-eyed recollections of childhood on a Swedish estate, blending domestic life with local lore and community history. The focus is the young Selma, her stern but devoted nurse Back-Kajsa, her parents (notably her lively father, a lieutenant), her grandmother, and her siblings, with scenes of illness, travel, and village ties shaping a warm portrait of place and people.  The opening of Mårbacka sketches vivid episodes: a formidable nurse, Back-Kajsa, proves dutiful but unplayful until Selma suddenly cannot walk, which draws out the woman’s deep tenderness. Selma’s siblings bridle at the attention her illness commands, a parade of doctors and folk healers fails, and a “high guest” turns out to be a newborn sister, shifting the household’s focus and discipline. The family travels via dangerous hills and a heaving steamer toward the west coast, where summer in Strömstad brings seaside freedom, local friendships, and a brush with superstition on the forbidding “grey island.” Visiting a captain’s home and then his ship, Selma sees a treasured “paradise bird” and, to everyone’s joy, unexpectedly finds she can walk again—others credit the baths, while she quietly wonders. A parting bookmark from a baker’s daughters becomes a talisman that fixes memories of the journey and the sight of home on return. The narrative then turns to an earlier family sorrow: starving landwehrmen are sheltered at Mårbacka, scarlet fever follows, two small children die, and the grandmother wrestles with guilt until her husband’s steadfast comfort restores her. Finally, the text lingers over the estate’s ancient stone buildings and an old servant due a medal, before the fragment breaks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76129,908,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76129,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76130,520,'"Marc. Aurel. Antoninus elmélkedései" by Emperor of Rome Marcus Aurelius is a collection of Stoic meditations written in the 2nd century AD. It is a private notebook of self-advice that explores how to live virtuously through reason, justice, self-restraint, and acceptance of nature’s order. The reflections blend imperial experience with Stoic practice, focusing on inner discipline over fame or fortune.  The opening of the work provides a brief biographical sketch of Marcus’s life and wars, then launches into Book I, a grateful catalog of lessons learned from family, teachers, and friends (from Rusticus and Apollonius to Sextus and Fronto), followed by thanks to the gods for guidance and circumstances. Book II begins with daily precepts: prepare to meet difficult people, distinguish body, breath, and ruling reason, accept providence, keep to present duties, and avoid distraction and vanity. Early sections of Books III–IV press the urgency of using the mind well before age dulls it, note the mortality of even the greatest figures, find beauty in nature’s processes, and urge retreat into the “inner citadel” rather than external escapes. Throughout, the maxims stress cosmopolitan duty, the brevity of life, indifference to praise, and death as a natural transformation, with asides noting the settings among the Quadi and at Carnuntum. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76130,908,'Reading ease score: 61.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76131,520,'"The mark of the monster by Jack Williamson" is a pulp horror short story written in the early 20th century. Set in a decaying Appalachian town steeped in occult lore, it follows a young man’s return to a place of brooding superstition, where whispered talk of a monstrous twin, a blood-smeared cellar, and a hilltop altar entwine love, fear, and the suggestion of inhuman inheritance.  Claiborne Coe comes back to Creston to marry Valyne, despite a dire warning from his foster father, Doctor Kyle. After a brutish encounter with Jud Geer and glimpses of a chained “creature” in the cellar, Kyle convinces Clay he is half-demon with a monstrous twin. When the “monster” escapes and abducts Valyne to the forest altar, Clay fights it; Kyle’s rifle shot fells the beast. Valyne then reveals the ticking of Jud’s watch, exposing the “monster” as Jud in a mask. Kyle confesses a plot—abetted by his household—to terrorize Clay into suicide and seize his fortune, and when he turns his gun on them, Clay kills him in self-defense. Clay and Valyne leave Creston for good. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76131,908,'Reading ease score: 84.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76132,520,'"Living lights :  A popular account of phosphorescent animals and vegetables" by Charles Frederick Holder is a popular natural history book written in the late 19th century. It explores the phenomenon of bioluminescence across the animal and plant kingdoms (and even minerals), with special emphasis on marine life, presenting vivid observations, experiments, and travel reports to engage curious readers and young naturalists.  The opening of the book lays out the author’s aim to entice young people into outdoor observation through the marvels of natural light, noting that while luminous organs are well described, the true cause of animal phosphorescence remains unknown. It then surveys bioluminescence at sea: the teeming, star-like glow of Noctiluca at the surface; the “meteors” of jellyfish and ctenophores such as Venus’ girdle; and fixed “lights” like sea anemones, corals, sea-fans, and sea-pens that can illuminate whole underwater “forests.” Next come deep-sea echinoderms—brilliant starfish and ophiuroids dredged from great depths—followed by luminous worms, from earthworms and rotifers to flamboyantly glowing marine polychaetes. The narrative turns to mollusks, from the lamp-like Pholas to wing-footed pteropods (Cleodora) and the striking, transparent Phyllirhoë, with notes on possible glow in squids. It concludes this opening stretch by introducing lightning-bugs, blending field anecdotes (including Jamaican fireflies) with clear descriptions of their light organs and behavior. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76132,908,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76132,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76132,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76133,520,'"Erakko :  Ynnä muita kertomuksia" by Ebba Pauli is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. Set in a timeless, Christian-tinged landscape, the stories revolve around a mountain hermit who gives quiet, penetrating counsel to people burdened by desire, doubt, grief, and moral struggle. Through parable-like visits—by villagers, a young priest, and even a noble youth—the book explores happiness, prayer, goodness, suffering, and the nature of divine mercy.  The opening of the collection follows a series of pilgrims seeking the hermit’s wisdom. A young woman learns that grasped happiness gained through wrongdoing turns hollow, and later finds enduring peace through sacrifice and obedience to the inner voice. Another woman, long certain her prayers were ignored, discovers that hope and readiness to receive can unlock the love she begged for in marriage. A restless priest who feels life offers only “crumbs” is taught, via the image of two streams and a steady river, to make his people’s joys and sorrows his own. A cheerful traveler who dismisses suffering is shown its role in truthfulness, growth, and solidarity, and is told to “live” suffering rather than curse it. A devout woman striving to be good is told to be like a flower—receive rather than strain—and later recognizes God’s power quietly at work within her, guided by calm, unhurried action and an inward will aligned before God. A grieving mother, haunted by her drowned son’s sins, is consoled with a vision of God as Father beyond death and of purifying pain rather than eternal despair. Finally, a young noble bound for the Crusades, denied the pilgrim’s cross, seeks the hermit’s testing of motives as their conversation begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76133,908,'Reading ease score: 52.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76133,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76133,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76134,520,'"Raudun taistelu" by Simo Eronen is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It chronicles the Battle of Rautu on the Karelian front of the Finnish Civil War from the White side, combining lecture-based narrative with battlefield maps to trace operations, logistics, and leadership under severe constraints.  The opening of the book explains that the work grew from public lectures and introduces two detailed maps, then sketches the dire strategic situation in Karelia: ill-equipped White forces, scant ammunition, improvised artillery repaired in Sortavala, and the need to hold the Vuoksi line despite weak reserves. After an alert from the border at Raasuli and a brave but outnumbered stand, the defenders fall back to Rautu station, lose it to a much larger, well-armed enemy, and watch as the station is rapidly fortified with brick-lined trenches, machine-gun nests, and strongpoints. The respite lets the Whites form a semicircular screen around the station through Mäkrä, Leinikkälä, the parish village, and Orjansaari, enabling repeated flanking thrusts—often led by Veikko Läheniemi—that blunt major assaults toward the church and Leinikkälä despite constant artillery fire and few machine guns. Reinforcements arrive only in dribs and drabs, including a single refurbished gun that boosts morale and helps stall an attack, while nearby the Valkjärvi sector briefly buckles before being shored up. Command passes from Kehvola to Ekman as the text emphasizes the enemy’s advantages from Petrograd’s proximity—fresh troops, ample munitions, tighter leadership—and the Whites’ exhaustion, poor clothing, and lack of rest. Yet a fierce resolve, fueled by the memory of Russian incursions and the defense of home soil, sustains the line as the narrative approaches the arrival of Elfvengren and a promised reorganization. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76134,908,'Reading ease score: 29.1 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76134,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76134,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76134,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76135,520,'"Tanulmányok I." by Ferenc Herczeg is a collection of essays written in the early 20th century. The volume gathers reflective studies and portraits, chiefly of Hungarian political leaders and the national character. Its opening centers on Count István Tisza, examining his career, convictions, and the fierce loyalties and hatreds he inspired. Overall it reads as sharp historical and moral profiles that use individual lives to probe Hungary’s fate.  The opening of the collection presents a long portrait of Count István Tisza within an “Arcképek – Vezérek” section. The author sketches Tisza’s Calvinist gentry roots at Geszt, his puritan discipline and horse‑centered country life, and contrasts his uncompromising, leaderly nature with his father Tisza Kálmán’s flexible political craft. He then follows the public career: rise from 1886 MP to the 1903 premiership, the struggle to end parliamentary obstruction, the 1904 house‑rules clash and 1905 defeat, a return to power, the 1912 crackdown as House Speaker amid violence and a failed assassination, and leadership through the Balkan crisis. Using diplomatic documents, the author emphasizes that Tisza initially opposed a war on Serbia and accepted conflict only conditionally, out of duty rather than bellicosity. The narrative proceeds to his 1917 exit, brief front‑line command, his October 1918 admission that the war was lost, and his murder during the Aster Revolution, followed by a posthumous hero cult. A companion piece, “Tisza István az ember,” shifts to character: his fierce sense of “magyarság,” love of horses and folk music, austerity, vigor, loyalty and kindness, and an unsentimental, commanding masculinity the author sees as mirroring Hungary’s best traits. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76135,908,'Reading ease score: 61.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76136,520,'"Tanulmányok II." by Ferenc Herczeg is a collection of essays written in the early 20th century. The volume gathers sharp political and cultural commentaries that scrutinize postwar Hungary and prominent contemporary figures, blending nationalist critique with broader reflections on Europe’s moral drift. Readers should expect forceful polemics about the 1918–1919 upheavals, portraits of politicians and thinkers, and comparative meditations on violence, justice, and civilization.  The opening of the volume launches with a blistering attack on Károlyi Mihály’s memoirs, portraying them as self-justifying propaganda and blaming Károlyi and Jászi Oszkár for ideological blindness, the disarmament of Hungary, and the ensuing national calamities. It argues that their anti‑national radicalism and misplaced faith in the Entente undermined the country while scorning traditional institutions. The next essays turn to Gandhi via Romain Rolland’s portrait, praising Gandhi’s moral authority, non‑violence, and non‑cooperation, contrasting them with Europe’s militaristic hypocrisy and the British repression in India. Herczeg then applies this critique to Europe’s spiritual decay, debating violence versus non‑violence and concluding that while non‑violence is nobler and tactically potent, nations may still be driven to force in self‑defense. The section closes by beginning a reading of H. G. Wells’s William Clissold, using its disenchanted narrator to indict the failure of postwar “reconstruction” and the hollowness of institutions like monarchy, parliament, and army in a civilization that has not learned to organize a humane life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76136,908,'Reading ease score: 54.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76137,520,'"Through trackless Labrador" by H. Hesketh-Prichard is a travel and exploration account written in the early 20th century. It follows a small expedition from the Moravian mission coast at Nain into the unmapped interior toward the George River, mixing adventure with close observation of Labrador’s stark geography, wildlife, and the lives of missionaries, Inuit, settlers, and Nascaupee and Montagnais Indians. Expect river ascents by canoe, hard portaging over a barren, mosquito-ridden plateau, and a practical focus on hunting, caching, and survival.  The opening of this work sets out the author’s aim: to cross the unknown plateau between the Atlantic and the George River using light Indian-style methods, living partly off the land and caching food, while praising the Moravian Mission and noting the harsh, “predatory” economy of Labrador. It sketches the land and people—climate shaped by polar currents, scattered coastal stations, seasonal fishermen, Inuit hunters, and interior Indians—along with the barrens, flies, and grand, austere scenery. The narrative then recalls an earlier failed attempt inland and details the 1910 plan with G. M. Gathorne-Hardy and canoe man Robert Porter, choosing the mission ship Harmony to reach Nain via Makkovik and Hopedale. At Nain the party gathers local intelligence, rejects safer southern routes despite warnings, and targets the Fraser River via Nunaingoak Bay, hiring an Eskimo helper while relying on caches and minimal loads. They sail up the bay, cross a long lake, and fight upstream in rain through shallow, rapid water hemmed by rising cliffs, with mosquitoes constant and game scarce. The helper demands higher pay and deserts; the three remaining men cache supplies, scout a steep ravine as a possible exit to the plateau, and then suffer a dangerous capsize on the Fraser that nearly drowns Porter and scatters their gear. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76137,908,'Reading ease score: 72.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76137,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76137,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76138,520,'Odd made even by Amy Le Feuvre is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Betty Stuart, an impulsive, idealistic young woman restless with London society and longing for purpose, as she and her steadier sister Molly accompany their overworked mother to a country vicarage. In this reflective, faith-infused domestic tale, Betty’s quest to “make odd even” intertwines with a bitter, blind villager she longs to comfort and with Gerald Arundel, a principled landowner facing the loss of his ancestral home.  The opening of the novel finds Betty bristling at shallow social calls and a persistent suitor, then whisked to the countryside when her mother’s health fails. In the village, Betty rekindles her childhood bond with the sculptor Mr. Russell, discovers solace at the church organ, and coaxes the embittered, blind Mat Lubbock to be her blower while quietly offering him hope. A chance encounter with a man in evident anguish later proves to be Gerald Arundel, whose gracious hospitality, love of books, and philanthropic bent impress Betty even as rumors—confirmed in his calm presence—surface that he must sell the Red Manor. Amid garden walks, organ-playing, and earnest conversations about charity and purpose, Betty is urged to fill her life with others’ needs, setting the story’s course of inner growth, compassion, and testing through altered circumstances. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76138,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76138,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76138,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76139,520,'Stories Jolly: Stories New: Stories Strange & Stories True: A Series of New and Original Tales for Boys and Girls from Six to Fourteen Years Old is a collection of children’s short stories written in the late 19th century. The anthology gathers varied moral, adventurous, and imaginative tales—by several well-known writers of the period—about courage, kindness, responsibility, and wonder, set from European gardens and cathedrals to stormy coasts and American prairies.  The opening of the collection presents a string of self-contained tales: a lame girl, Herminé, befriends a fountain statue that comes alive at night and finds healing in its waters; a lifeboat-obsessed boy, Edwin, secretly joins a rescue during a sudden storm and helps save passengers, including his mother; a boy’s reckless chloroform “experiment” nearly kills his young cousin before timely adult help brings a hard-earned lesson; an impulsive traveler, Joan, wanders onto a cathedral roof and is guided back from real peril; after an attack on a wagon train, Winnie protects toddler Bobby and treks by night to safety; and on Christmas Eve an Italian orphan survives a night in a bear pit by soothing Bruin with his lute, then finds kindness and a new start. The section closes by beginning “Pea Blossom,” in which a boy named Willy is spellbound by a stage fairy, setting up a tale of enchantment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76139,908,'Reading ease score: 77.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76139,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76139,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76139,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76140,520,'"L''esca del pecat" by M. Figuerola Aldroféu is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in Barcelona, it likely explores moral corruption, social hypocrisy, and the vulnerability of working people to predatory elites. It follows Gracieta, a virtuous young seamstress, and her widowed father Pau, targeted by the charming but violent dandy Arturo Bosch and his henchman, while a parallel thread involves the kept woman Antonia de Roca-viva and a jaded marquess.  The opening of this novel introduces Pau, a good-natured cobbler, and his daughter Gracieta, courted by Arturo, who poses as a prosperous “stock man.” After Gracieta seeks her father’s approval, Arturo refuses a humble meeting and instead plots with his fixer, Mala-ánima, to lure Pau away and assault Gracieta in a rented flat; she resists, raises the alarm, and is forced to shield Arturo to save her father, who is being held and wounded. We then see Arturo’s double life: he lives grandly under an alias, keeps Antonia—whom he brutally violates—and partners in an insurance-fraud scheme using dynamite-laden crates disguised as goods bound for Montevideo. Meanwhile, a marquess and his club friends gossip, the marquess seduces and installs Antonia after she leaves Arturo, and Gracieta’s coworkers and neighbors piece together clues (with a portress’s help) to find Arturo, just as he finalizes the explosive scam and swears vengeance against Gracieta. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76140,908,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76141,520,'"Note di un viaggio in Persia nel 1862" by Filippo De Filippi is a scientific travel account written in the mid-19th century. It chronicles an Italian diplomatic mission to Persia while doubling as a naturalist’s field record of geology, zoology, landscapes, and peoples from the Mediterranean, through Constantinople and the Caucasus, to Iran. The narrative blends route descriptions with keen scientific collecting and occasional political and economic reflections. It will appeal to readers who enjoy exploration narratives grounded in careful observation.  The opening of the travelogue lays out the diplomatic purpose and the embassy’s mixed makeup—diplomatic, military, scientific, and commercial—then follows the departure from Genoa and a sea passage past Stromboli and Messina to Constantinople, alive with sketches of volcanic sights, phosphorescent waters, and waves of migrating birds. In Constantinople the party reorganizes, hires a Persian dragoman, and shifts to a larger steamer for the Black Sea, enduring rough weather and stopping at Ineboli, Sinope, Samsun, and Trebizond, where the author notes barren shores and thin marine life. Transferring to a Russian vessel, they reach Batum and Poti: malarial rice flats and primeval Colchian forests trigger both specimen collecting (fish and mollusks) and vivid digressions—on dolphins, a catastrophic anchovy event at Balaklava, and a re-reading of the “Golden Fleece” as the region’s unrealized agricultural wealth. The section closes with the ascent of the Rioni to Marani, cordial assistance from Russian officials (including a dedicated guide, Captain Romanoff), and a practical primer on Caucasian travel—telegas and tarantasses, bare-bones post stations, and the necessity of self-sufficiency. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76141,908,'Reading ease score: 36.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76141,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76142,520,'"Children of the Moor" by Laura Fitinghoff is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. Set during a famine in northern Sweden, the story follows seven orphaned siblings—led by the resolute Andy—and their milk-giving goat, Golden Horn, as they trek from settlement to settlement seeking food, shelter, and kindness. It’s a tale of endurance, faith, and the contrasts between generosity and hard-heartedness they meet along the way.  The opening of the novel sketches the bleak famine in Norrland, the father’s death and the mother’s passing, and the children’s flight to avoid the poorhouse, with Andy pulling a sled that carries the youngest girls. On the road they stave off fear of wolves by singing, then find unexpected refuge with “the Spectacle Man,” a lame shoemaker (Ladd-Pelle) who feeds them; in return they clean his cottage, bake bread, and he crafts new shoes for their blistered feet. Pressing on, they are rebuffed at a prosperous farm, then overtaken by a storm on the frozen river; amid the whiteout the toddler Martha-Greta falls from the sled unnoticed, and Andy searches in vain. Meanwhile a forester discovers the child, carries her to his warm home, and his compassionate wife tends her—while the rest of the children struggle forward through the snow, now separated from their smallest sister. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76142,908,'Reading ease score: 89.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76142,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76142,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76142,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76142,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76143,520,'"Wie ich Livingstone fand; Erster Band" by Henry M. Stanley is a travel and exploration narrative written in the late 19th century. It chronicles a newspaper-driven quest to locate Dr. David Livingstone in Central Africa, emphasizing the logistics, cultural encounters, and hazards of mounting and leading an expedition from the East African coast into the interior. Readers should expect vivid reportage on Zanzibar, caravan trade systems, and the realities of exploration, alongside the developing pursuit of the famed missionary-explorer.  The opening of the narrative follows a telegram that summons the narrator to Paris, where James Gordon Bennett commissions him—liberally funding the effort—to find Livingstone, after which he undertakes a long preliminary circuit through the Mediterranean, the Near East, the Caucasus, Persia, and India before reaching Zanzibar. There, he explains his terminology and first-person approach, then paints a lively, critical portrait of the island’s society, trade, missionaries, and climate, including meetings with the U.S. consul and Britain’s Dr. John Kirk, who doubts Livingstone would welcome company. The story then turns practical: learning local currencies of trade (cloth, beads, brass wire) from Arab merchants such as Sheikh Haschid, buying and improvising gear (donkeys and pack-saddles), and hiring two European aides alongside seasoned African askari and porters—including Speke’s veterans like Bombay. The section closes as the provisioning and recruitment continue and a problem involving the veteran Mabruki is introduced. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76143,908,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76143,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76143,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76144,520,'"Wie ich Livingstone fand; Zweiter Band" by Henry M. Stanley is an exploration narrative and travelogue written in the late 19th century. It relates Stanley’s push across Central Africa to locate Dr. David Livingstone and then explore with him around Lake Tanganyika. Expect brisk route diaries, negotiations and tolls, close calls with wildlife, and keen observations of landscapes and peoples.  The opening of the volume follows Stanley’s march from Mrera toward Ujiji via Ukonongo, Ukawendi, Uvinza, and Uhha, battling swamps, fetid crossings, and hunger while skirting war zones. He records vivid encounters—a leopard mauls a donkey, lions roar around camp, a giant warthog and buffalo are hunted—alongside hard choices about routes and discipline. In Uvinza he buys provisions and guides, reaches the Malagarazi after grueling swamp work, endures extortionate ferry fees, and loses the donkey Simba to a crocodile; then vital news arrives that an elderly white man from Manyuema is at Ujiji, spurring a forced push west. Entering Uhha, escalating tolls culminate in a tense standoff with the Mutware Mionvu (settled at heavy cost) and new demands ahead, so Stanley discreetly hires a clandestine guide, stocks food, and leads a silent moonlit march through the bush to bypass further exactions—still pressing on as dawn breaks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76144,908,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76144,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76144,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76145,520,'"La jeune Inde" by Mahatma Gandhi is a collection of political writings written in the early 20th century. It gathers his articles and addresses on non-violent resistance, national self-rule, and moral reform under colonial rule, presenting Satyagraha as a disciplined, transformative force. The focus is on non-cooperation, Swadeshi, Hindu–Muslim unity, and the ethical foundations of political action.  The opening of the work presents Romain Rolland’s introduction, which frames the writings as an audacious, methodical “experiment” in non-violence—an active “sword” of self‑sacrifice rather than passivity—carried out amid real danger, strict self-discipline, and total transparency. He highlights the aims and risks of mobilizing vast, emotional crowds, Gandhi’s readiness to err, correct, and bear responsibility, his outreach even to adversaries, and his insistence on moral rigor. The early pieces then show this program in action: a call for Satyagraha linked with Swadeshi and interfaith solidarity; a clear statement of principles distinguishing Satyagraha from passive resistance and recounting the first nationwide fast-and-strike, Gandhi’s arrest, the unrest that followed, and his critique of punitive state measures; an appeal to support Muslims over the Caliphate by principled non-cooperation rather than commercial boycotts; a measured response to a royal proclamation urging disciplined agitation, not complacency; a practical plan to achieve Swaraj through village spinning and khadi; guidance on Hindu–Muslim unity grounded in shared purpose and tolerance rather than social mixing; a plea for clemency after the Amritsar trials; and a concise definition of non-violence as active goodwill toward all beings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76145,908,'Reading ease score: 68.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76146,520,'"Fossil plants, Vol. 3 : A text-book for students of botany and geology" by Seward is a scientific textbook written in the early 20th century. It concentrates on fossil gymnosperms—especially seed ferns (Pteridospermeae), cycad-like plants, cordaites, and Bennettitales—using comparative anatomy, morphology, and systematics, with frequent reference to living cycads to frame evolutionary interpretations. The volume is aimed at students of botany and geology and is richly illustrated.  The opening of the volume sets its scope in a preface that explains the emphasis on gymnosperms and postpones a global survey of past floras, then launches into a detailed primer on living Cycadales to prepare readers for fossil comparisons. This primer covers cycad habit and diversity, distribution, fronds and stems, reproductive structures (dioecious strobili versus the free megasporophylls of Cycas), seed structure with pollen chambers and motile sperm, probable insect pollination, and distinctive anatomy such as manoxylic wood, multiple cambial rings, and girdle leaf-traces; it also outlines the main tribes and genera (Cycas, Zamia, Dioon, Encephalartos, Ceratozamia, Macrozamia, Microcycas, Stangeria, Bowenia). The text then moves into the Pteridosperms with Lyginopteris oldhamia, clarifying nomenclatural history (preferring Lyginopteris over Lyginodendron for certain casts) and summarizing stem anatomy: a large pith, broad secondary xylem with prominent medullary rays, mesarch leaf-trace bundles, and a reticulate cortical stereome, setting the stage for linking stems, fronds, and seeds (Lagenostoma). (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76146,908,'Reading ease score: 63.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76146,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76146,670);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76147,520,'"Il tesoro del Presidente del Paraguay" by Emilio Salgari is an adventure novel written in the late 19th century. Set during the War of the Triple Alliance, it follows Captain Candell’s audacious bid to run a blockade with a clandestine cargo of rifles and the Paraguayan president’s diamond treasure. Expect naval pursuit, a daring balloon escape, and survival at sea with Candell, the stalwart mastro Diego, the fearless youth Cardozo, and the enigmatic government agent Calderon.  The opening of the novel places the covert war steamer Pilcomayo off the Río de la Plata at night, its crew whispering about their true cargo—arms for the Paraguayan army and the president’s treasure—while Allied ships move to trap them. The rendezvous that should have eased their passage fails, and amid tightening patrols Captain Candell reveals his contingency: a gas balloon prepared to spirit the treasure away. Under fire, after crippling a pursuing frigate, he launches the balloon with Calderon, mastro Diego, and young Cardozo aboard, diamonds in hand; soon a distant blast hints at the Pilcomayo’s destruction. Carried eastward over the Atlantic, the trio contend with fickle winds, leaking gas, an approaching storm, a teasing mirage, and the menacing rise of a giant sperm whale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76147,500,'https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Il_tesoro_del_presidente_del_Paraguay',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76147,908,'Reading ease score: 48.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76147,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76147,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76147,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76148,520,'"Indian slavery in colonial times within the present limits of the United States" by Almon Wheeler Lauber is a historical study written in the early 20th century. It examines the enslavement of Native Americans by Indigenous societies and by Spanish, French, and especially English colonists, outlining how captivity, trade, and law shaped the institution and how it waned. Drawing on scattered archival sources, the work surveys capture methods, labor uses, legal status, treatment, manumission, and the shift toward African slavery.  The opening of this study states its aim: to recover the largely overlooked history of Indian slavery and to emphasize English colonial practice while setting it against Indian, Spanish, and French precedents. It outlines how many Native societies practiced forms of servitude—through gambling losses, famine sales, barter, raids, and war—how captives were used (domestic work, agriculture, hunting, fishing, mining), and how treatment ranged from adoption and kinship-based manumission to mutilation and execution, with women and councils often deciding captives’ fate. It then shows Spaniards embedding enslavement in exploration and conquest, using captives as guides, porters, cooks, and concubines; notes episodic kindness amid coercion; describes a largely ineffective royal effort to end the practice; and portrays mission and presidio systems as de facto coerced labor. Finally, it sketches French practice: initially vague legality later recognized, public indifference, and reliance on war captives, kidnapping, trade by coureurs de bois (including sales to English markets), gifts from allied chiefs, and inheritance through enslaved mothers, with slaves serving as guides, interpreters, and domestics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76148,908,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76148,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76148,661);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76149,520,'"Mogens : Rakkauskertomus" by J. P. Jacobsen is a novella written in the late 19th century. It is a naturalist love story that follows the sensitive, impulsive Mogens as an unexpected encounter with Kamilla blossoms into courtship amid richly observed landscapes. The tone balances rapture with irony, setting spontaneous feeling against social polish and bookish talk. It signals a deeper inquiry into how youthful ideals collide with reality and how love can shade into disillusionment.  The opening of the novella paints a radiant summer scene: Mogens, enlivened by a rain shower, glimpses a girl’s face in the hazels; later he meets her—Kamilla—while rowing with her dignified father, and their playful, frank exchanges lead to frequent visits at Kap Trafalgar. Their rapport deepens through teasing conversations about books and life, until Mogens blurts out a proposal among apple boughs, and the father good‑naturedly consents. Winter shatters this idyll: a nighttime fire engulfs Kamilla’s home; Mogens’ desperate attempt to reach her fails, and he flees in grief. Subsequent gossip sketches his drift into coarse company; later he brusquely ends an affair with a performer named Laura, then wanders the coast, brooding that love is mere desire—until a woman’s sudden song by a garden moves him to tears as the section closes with him heading toward the churchyard. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76149,908,'Reading ease score: 38.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76149,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76149,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76150,520,'"Indiában" by Waldemar Bonsels is a travel memoir written in the early 20th century. It follows a European traveler on the Malabar Coast, mixing lush nature writing, philosophical musing, and gently ironic encounters with people and animals. Early on, the narrator settles near Cannanore with his servant Panja, the taciturn cook Pasa, and a dog named Elias, observing local customs, wildlife, and the sea.  The opening of the narrative finds the German narrator arriving in Cannanore, renting a neglected house from the talkative Rameni, and contending with ants, rats, and a wild garden while relying on Panja and Pasa. A tense night scene unfolds as rats and feral cats battle in his room until a cobra’s chilling appearance stills everything, prompting the narrator’s eerie, rapt reflections. The next morning shifts to fresh coastal light: a cautious visit to the shaded water cistern, a walk through the bazaar and past the British fort, and the start of a routine among local fishermen—casting lines from black rocks, skirting sharks, and contemplating the sea. The section closes with sharp, humane vignettes: rescuing beached sea turtles from slow death and a comic fiasco after he offers to pay for insects, drawing an endless line of townspeople bearing every imaginable bug. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76150,908,'Reading ease score: 50.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76150,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76150,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76151,520,'The unbidden guest : or, Between two passions by Mrs. Alex. McVeigh Miller is a romance novel written in the early 20th century. Set at a West Virginia mountain estate called The Crags, it centers on Gipsy Darke, a beautiful waif raised under charity, and the aristocratic cousins Lelia Ritchie and Laurie Willoughby, whose engagement is tested by jealousy, class pride, and Gipsy’s courage. Expect high drama with rescues, secrets, and the social tensions of a lively house-party.  The opening of the novel introduces The Crags and recounts how a gipsy infant, later called Gipsy Darke, was found and reared there, largely ignored by its owner, Miss Cyrilla Willoughby, but educated quietly by a kind secretary. When the betrothed cousins, Lelia and Laurie, return for a visit, Gipsy saves them during a violent storm by calming their bolting horses, is injured, and is spurned by Lelia’s ingratitude. Hiding hurt in a rock cleft, Gipsy overhears masked burglars—guided by Lelia’s maid—plotting to steal Lelia’s diamonds and kill if resisted; she crawls for help, is found by Laurie, and her warning leads to the men bursting into Lelia’s room just in time to subdue the thieves. As Gipsy lies feverish, Miss Willoughby grows fond and protective, while the house-party proceeds; Lelia’s jealousy erupts over a harmless ride Laurie takes with a flirtatious guest, a quarrel ends with her returning his ring, and Laurie abruptly leaves—first slipping that ring onto Gipsy’s finger with a mysterious “wish”—after which Lelia announces the broken engagement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76151,908,'Reading ease score: 78.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76151,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76151,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76151,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76152,520,'"Unelma-elämä :  Nelinäytöksinen näytelmäruno" by Franz Grillparzer is a four-act verse drama written in the early 19th century. The work dramatizes the temptations of ambition and the tension between dreamed glory and humble contentment, following the impetuous Rustan, his devoted Mirza, and the goading servant Zanga amid the courtly world of Samarkand and Princess Gülnare. It is a moral tale of self-fashioning, reputation, and conscience beneath the glitter of heroic deeds.  The opening of the play shows Mirza anxiously awaiting the hunter Rustan at a mountain cottage, while her father Massud laments Rustan’s restless, glory-hungry spirit—stoked by the crafty Zanga. Returning defiant, Rustan resolves to leave despite their pleas; as night falls, music and a stage transformation carry him into a new scene near Samarkand, where he revels in “freedom” and opportunity. When a king is pursued by a giant serpent, a mysterious mountaineer actually slays the beast, but Rustan—prodded by Zanga—accepts the credit and wins the favor of the king and Princess Gülnare; later, fearing exposure, he fights the stranger on a bridge and stabs him, the man plunging into the river. As celebrations begin, news of a murdered body found by the water spreads; a mute old father seeks justice, the king’s suspicions stir, and an old crone presses a “remedy,” leaving Rustan cornered between his soaring fortunes and the consequences of his deed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76152,908,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76152,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76152,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76153,520,'"The stone dragon and other tragic romances" by Murray Gilchrist is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. It gathers lush, gothic-tinged tales of passionate love curdling into jealousy, fate, and death, often set amid moors, manor houses, and haunted memories. The opening pieces center on doomed lovers—most immediately Ralph Eyre and his cousins Rachel and Mary Verelst—where beauty, obsession, and fatal choices collide.  The opening of this collection first follows The Stone Dragon: Ralph disobeys his domineering great-aunt’s marriage scheme, but years later returns to Furnivaux Castle bound by her will to choose between cousins Rachel, dazzling and volatile, and Mary, gentle and shy. He vows himself to Mary; Rachel’s jealousy erupts, she strikes at him with a knife, and Mary saves him by taking the blow. On their stark, quiet wedding day, Rachel returns only to be found dead beside the garden’s stone dragon. The next tale, The Manuscript of Francis Shackerley, recounts a childhood glimpse of Lady Millicent, married off as a child, then a later, intense affair cut short when her alchemist husband discovers them during a storm and coldly bleeds her to death, leaving the narrator spiritually crushed and silent until years later. In Midsummer Madness, Rupert Drassington exults in his ethereal bride Phyllida; they marry in a roofless chapel, but she immediately falls into a trance of denial, hinting at a binding past vow and casting fresh dread over their union. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76153,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76153,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76153,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76153,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76154,520,'"London Lavender :  An entertainment" by E. V. Lucas is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Kent Falconer and his wife Naomi as they set up house in Primrose Terrace near Regent’s Park, meeting an assortment of London characters and observing city life with gentle wit. Through domestic episodes, Zoo visits, folk songs, and neighbors’ intrigues, the book offers a string of comic-sympathetic portraits and social asides rather than a single driving plot.  The opening of the novel shows Kent and Naomi leaving his old rooms for a new lodging near Regent’s Park, run by the refined but fussy Packer twins and aided by Mrs. Wiles, whose husband is head keeper of the ape house at the Zoo. Kent befriends the Wileses (and an orangutan named Barbara), sketches his daily Zoo rounds, and, at Naomi’s urging to find useful work, becomes honorary secretary to a folk-song society—pausing to celebrate the freshness of old English tunes and to insert a poignant tale about a device that replays past telephone calls to a grieving lover. Their fellow lodgers emerge: the impulsively kind Mr. Lacey (who defends a one‑legged organ‑grinder), a cinema man, a mysterious recluse, and a fastidious young Socialist; Kent also endures a smoky political salon where a party fixer holds forth. A windfall inheritance then jolts the Wileses into uneasy “gentility,” souring their simple contentment, while the top-floor Socialist outlines his school talks aimed at awakening privileged boys to the labor that underpins their comfort. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76154,908,'Reading ease score: 79.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76154,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76154,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76154,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76155,520,'"Timmy Whoof :  A story of a little pet bear by Kate Innes" is a children’s animal tale written in the early 20th century. Told in simple chapters, it follows a bear cub’s encounters with humans and dogs on the plains, blending adventure with gentle morals about fear, curiosity, and kindness. The likely topic is a young bear’s journey from the wild into human care and back again, highlighting how compassion can bridge the gap between nature and people.  A cinnamon bear and her two cubs live near a sheep camp guarded by dogs and lanterns. After the mother chases a shepherd and plunges her head into a flour sack—becoming comically “masked”—she is later trapped and taken away, leaving the cubs alone. A kind shepherd named Timothy rescues them; only one survives, whom he names Timmy Whoof. Timothy raises the cub, inventing a playful “candle boxing” game and protecting him from a harsher fellow herder. On a journey, Timmy’s night crying alerts Timothy to a landslide and saves his life, sealing their bond. Timmy grows strong and tame, then eventually returns to the forest, carrying the memory of the shepherd’s friendship as he resumes life in the wild. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76155,908,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76155,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76155,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76156,520,'"Altitude by Leland Jamieson" is an aviation adventure short story written in the early 20th century. The story centers on a free-balloon expert’s bid for an altitude record, highlighting the dangers of high-altitude flight, the necessity of precise equipment, and the thin line between mastery and catastrophe.  Captain Conway prepares the giant hydrogen balloon Marie IV for a record-breaking ascent, aided by his sober, loyal crewman Kisner and the talkative, unreliable Welkfurn. A critical delay keeps a de-oiled, cold-proof clock from reaching the field in time, and Conway launches with a standard clock that soon freezes. As he climbs into the stratosphere, oxygen dwindles, paralysis creeps over his body, and the stopped clock robs him of his timing. At the peak, near death, he manages to trigger the rip-cord, causing a disastrous deflation; the balloon fails to parachute properly and plummets. Regaining just enough awareness near the ground, he bails out under his own parachute and survives. Rescued by Kisner and a chastened Welkfurn, he later reflects on the razor’s edge of his success—both the new record and his life saved by a last-moment escape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76156,908,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76156,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76156,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76156,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76157,520,'"Barnum" by M. R. Werner is a biography written in the early 20th century. It recounts the life and legend of P. T. Barnum, probing beyond his flamboyant self-portrait to assess his character, methods, and influence on American popular culture. The focus is on how a sharp-witted Connecticut Yankee harnessed publicity, spectacle, and shrewd deal-making to build a show business empire.  The opening of the book frames Barnum’s own autobiography as both biased and revealing, then argues for a fresh, sourced reappraisal of his place in American life. It sketches his Bethel, Connecticut upbringing—practical jokes, country-store sharpness, early arithmetic prowess, religious tensions, and the formative “Ivy Island” prank—alongside teenage lottery hustles, his father’s death, and a defiant stint as a small-town newspaper editor that led to jail and a triumphal release. Moving to New York, the narrative shows him nearly broke yet relentless, staging his first big attraction with the ancient slave Joice Heth, fanning controversy through the press, and learning the power of sensational publicity. It follows his rough apprenticeship on the road with jugglers and a circus, his willingness to preach on Sunday and sing in blackface on Monday, a string of business failures and swindles, and a turn to writing theatrical ads. The section culminates with his audacious, intricate maneuver to acquire Scudder’s American Museum: persuading the building’s owner to back him, pledging his worthless “Ivy Island” as security, undermining a rival stock scheme through the newspapers, and seizing control—signaled by a cheeky note putting the rival directors on the free list. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76157,908,'Reading ease score: 66.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76157,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76157,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76158,520,'"Toll :  Rövid igaz történetek, megjegyzések, feljegyzések, kuriózumok…." by Molnár Ferenc is a collection of autobiographical sketches and anecdotes written in the early 20th century. The pieces form a witty, humane notebook of brief memories, curiosities, and theatrical observations that move between urban life, the stage, and private coincidence. It likely appeals to readers who enjoy light yet poignant miniatures, where humor, irony, and tenderness sit side by side.  The opening of this collection declares its method: a light, unsystematic sweep of memories—“feathers” gathered to make a pillow—offering rest rather than argument. Molnár then strings together sharply etched vignettes: living opposite a fire station, he meditates on how perfect safety tempts fate; a Karlsbad hotel scene skewers social ostentation; and a gambler “passes” a neurological test by reading cues like roulette. He recalls kissing Jókai’s hand and records Podmaniczky Frigyes’s urbane complaint about flies in soup, then shifts to a masked night police raid where chance confronts a newly dismissed cook, exposing life’s puppet‑show ironies. Theatre and city recur as stages—an embroidery migrating between box office and prompter signals a play’s fortunes; props speak; and a brisk “dramaturgy” imagines spectatorship as a refined punishment. Other sketches weigh counterfeit luck, a cruel postal prank, reputation and discretion, a rebuke to corpse‑worship, language learning, types of false “heart,” and a child’s generous grievance, before a moonlit boat ride leads into a cautionary Paris tale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76158,908,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76159,520,'"Mijn Land, 03/11 :  Zuid-Holland by G.J. Nijland" is a regional travel guide and topographical portrait written in the early 20th century. It presents the Dutch province of South Holland, describing its polders and dunes, rivers and lakes, cities and villages, and the historic and economic life shaped by water management, agriculture, fishing, and trade.  The book opens with the land’s making: dunes, peat and clay, polders below sea level, and the boezem systems that drain them, followed by a sketch of Roman traces and medieval history. It then conducts a series of tours: The Hague with the Binnenhof, Ridderzaal, and the nearby resort of Scheveningen; north through the dune belt and bulb fields around Wassenaar, Katwijk, Noordwijk, Hillegom, and Lisse; the university city of Leiden with its Burcht, Marekerk, and Waag; the lake district of the Kaag and Braassemermeer; and the winding Oude Rijn past Alphen to Woerden and the Reeuwijk lakes. The route continues to Gouda—its town hall and famed St. Janskerk windows—and Oudewater, crosses the Krimpenerwaard to Schoonhoven, and turns west through Schieland and Delfland by way of Rotterdam’s vast harbors and Laurenskerk, Schiedam, Vlaardingen, and Maassluis, then Delft with the Prinsenhof, Nieuwe Kerk, and Oude Kerk. Finally it surveys the Alblasserwaard and Vijfheerenlanden along the Lek and Merwede—Vianen, Gorinchem, the Giessen villages, and Leerdam—and the islands: Dordrecht, the Hoeksche Waard, IJsselmonde, Voorne-Putten (Brielle, Hellevoetsluis, Rockanje), Rozenburg, and Goeree-Overflakkee. Throughout, the narrative dwells on water, dikes, canals, shipyards, market towns, and the changing skies, concluding with an affirmation of South Holland’s beauty and historic weight. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76159,908,'Reading ease score: 72.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76159,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76160,520,'Korpi nukkuu :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Kaarle Halme is a one-act play written in the early 20th century. Set in rural Finland in the late 19th century, it examines moonshining, youthful bravado, and the clash between traditional village life and encroaching modernization. The likely topic is the moral and social costs of illegal drink and communal complicity just as industrial money begins to reach the backwoods.  One autumn evening in Mäkipää’s cottage, Martta and her friend Elina worry over household hardships and their men’s drinking while Elina’s father, the steady farmer Simuna, brings news: city “engineers” want to lease the Korvenkoski rapids for a wood‑pulp venture, promising rich rents. The moonshiner Perttu arrives with a keg, boasting he escaped conviction because village youths lied for him in court. When the boisterous Heikki (Simuna’s son) and Mikko (Martta’s brother) return, they revel, joke about their false oaths, and plan more revelry. Law officers, who have been listening outside the window, burst in with a lantern, bind Perttu, Mikko, and Heikki, and announce all will go to prison, having heard their own admissions. Simuna laments the “devil of drink” that has ensnared them, and the curtain falls on a community caught between easy money, law, and a deadened conscience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76160,908,'Reading ease score: 55.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76160,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76161,520,'"Shelleyn runoja by Percy Bysshe Shelley" is a collection of lyric poetry from the Romantic era, composed in the early 19th century. It is a poetry collection that explores nature, beauty, love, political idealism, and the transience of life.  The poems range from invocations and odes to elegies and brief fragments. The opening of Alastor invokes the natural world as muse; Hymn to Intellectual Beauty contemplates an elusive, sanctifying spirit; and pieces like Mennyt and Katoovaisuus meditate on impermanence. Stanzas Written in Dejection near Naples blends seascape with personal desolation; Invocation to Misery addresses suffering as a stark companion. Ode to the West Wind pleads with the destroyer-preserver for renewal, while Indian Serenade and To a Skylark offer tender and radiant love and song. Liberty voices revolutionary hope; Song of Proserpine and The World''s Wanderers use myth and celestial images to frame exile and longing. The long poem Mimosa tells, through a garden’s flourishing and decay after its guardian’s death, an allegory of beauty’s rise and ruin. Later pieces—To Night, Time, and the closing Dirge—return to night, time, and grief, weaving a consistent pattern of wind, sea, stars, and seasons to balance despair with visionary hope. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76161,908,'Reading ease score: 43.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76161,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76161,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76161,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76162,520,'"André Michaux''s Travels into Kentucky, 1793-96; François André Michaux''s…" by André Michaux and François André Michaux is a collection of travel journals written in the late 18th and early 19th century. The work chronicles scientific and exploratory journeys across the trans-Appalachian West, weaving meticulous botanical observations with firsthand notes on routes, rivers, settlements, and the realities of frontier travel, occasionally touching on contemporary political aims.  The opening of the volume presents a transcriber’s note and an editor’s preface that sketches the lives of the Michauxs, explains the series’ purpose, and frames the journals’ significance for Western settlement, botany, and travel conditions. It then launches into André Michaux’s 1793 diary, following him from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh and down the Ohio toward Kentucky, where he records dense plant lists alongside stops at Gallipolis, Limestone, Washington, Lexington, Danville, and Louisville. In Kentucky he meets figures such as Benjamin Logan, Isaac Shelby, and George Rogers Clark while discreetly advancing a French diplomatic errand, before returning east via the Wilderness Road and the Valley of Virginia. Subsequent early entries cover his 1795 push from the Carolinas into East Tennessee, the hazardous Cumberland crossing to Nashville, and back through Kentucky to Louisville and the salt licks. He then heads toward Vincennes and the Illinois country—Kaskaskia, Prairie du Rocher, Cahokia, and Fort Massac—intermixing candid notes on French villages, game, saltworks, and river travel with exhaustive botanical catalogues, concluding this opening portion amid his late-1795 Tennessee and Cumberland river observations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76162,908,'Reading ease score: 66.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76162,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76162,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76162,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76162,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76163,520,'Tanulmányok by Dávid Angyal is a collection of scholarly essays written in the early 20th century. It likely brings together literary criticism and historical-political studies, pairing close readings of classic texts with arguments about Hungarian constitutional and military questions. The focus ranges from Shakespeare’s non-dramatic poetry and its Hungarian reception to debates around Deák Ferenc and the Austro-Hungarian Compromise.  The opening of the volume first examines Shakespeare’s “minor” poems—Venus and Adonis, Lucrece, and especially the Sonnets—through the lens of Hungarian translations by Lőrinczi, Szász, and Győry, praising strengths, pinpointing mistranslations (notably in sonnet closing lines), and weighing the perennial biographical theories with a measured, anti-dogmatic stance. It argues that while convention shaped parts of the Sonnets, genuine feeling shines through, and it contrasts the narrative poems’ vivid sensuality with their structural limits, highlighting recurring moral sympathy for the defenseless. The next essay shifts to Deák Ferenc’s centenary and the “military question,” rebutting claims that Deák lacked international vision, defending the Compromise as aligning Hungarian and broader strategic needs, and explaining Deák’s rejection of a fully separate army. To support this, it surveys Hungarian military-legal history from the 16th to the 19th century to show that a wholly independent army has little precedent, while national elements (language, officers, honvéd) can coexist with shared command under the Pragmatic Sanction. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76163,908,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76164,520,'"La tratta dei fanciulli: racconto sociale" by Giuseppe Guerzoni is a social novel written in the late 19th century. It denounces the organized trafficking of poor Southern Italian children who are sold to intermediaries and forced to beg and perform across Europe, following the siblings Carluccio and Stefanella from Calabria to Paris. Mixing narrative and exposé, it indicts public apathy, clerical complicity, and governmental indifference.  The opening of the work begins with a fervent preface arguing that the scandal persists despite debate and promises of reform. The story then moves to the bleak Calabrian village of Ritorto, where lo Storpiato, a maimed ex‑brigand, and his wife Marinella, in desperate poverty, sell their children Carluccio and Stefanella to a trafficker, with a priest’s paid blessing sealing the deal. Shipped with dozens of other children to Marseille and on to Paris, they are numbered, confined in a stinking dormitory, and drilled in the arts of street performance and strategic begging by a clandestine network. Initially successful on the boulevards, they face envy, harsher quotas, and punishments that deny food unless cash targets are met, until Stefanella collapses from hunger and is briefly hospitalized before being reclaimed by the organization. The section closes with the narrative widening its critique to the charitable and civic systems that fail to protect such children. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76164,908,'Reading ease score: 41.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76164,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76165,520,'Pascal gondolatai by Blaise Pascal is a collection of philosophical and theological reflections written in the mid-17th century. In concise, often aphoristic notes, it probes the limits of reason, the nature of belief, and the paradoxes of the human condition, bringing mathematical rigor to moral psychology and Christian apologetics. Expect a rigorous yet personal inquiry that weighs skepticism against faith and shows how language, method, and imagination shape what we take to be true.  The opening of the work first presents a biographical sketch: a portrait of a precocious mathematician and physicist whose ill health, near-fatal shock, and disenchantment with worldly society led to religious retreat at Port-Royal amid Jansenist controversies and polemics with the Jesuits; it also explains that the Thoughts survive as unfinished fragments and praises their lucid style and humane spirit. The text then begins with a program for proof and exposition modeled on mathematics: define terms to avoid ambiguity, prove only what is not self-evident, leave primitive notions (space, time, motion, number, equality) undefined, and use substitution to keep meanings clear; it contrasts ideal method with what is humanly possible, and introduces the “two infinities” of the very great and the very small. Next come brief counsels on persuasion and style—why pleasing matters, how natural language convinces better than ornate phrasing, and why logic-chopping and sophistry mislead. Finally, in a section on the uncertainty of our knowledge, the fragments weigh dream and waking, habit as a second nature, the instability of sense and reason, the power of imagination and will over judgment, and the stalemate between skeptics and dogmatists—setting the stage for a faith-informed approach to truth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76165,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pens%C3%A9es',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76165,908,'Reading ease score: 58.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76166,520,'"The Little Review, November 1916 (Vol. 3, No. 7) by Various" is a modernist literary magazine issue produced in the early 20th century. It gathers poetry, essays, criticism, and letters around avant-garde literature, art, music, and aesthetics, articulating a bold, often polemical stance toward contemporary culture.  This issue opens with Richard Aldington’s Myrrhine and Konallis, a sequence of Hellenic love-lyrics mixing ritual, wine, gods, and mortality. It offers a French dramatic poem by Jean de Bosschère, L’Offre de Plebs, a tense dialogue among a misanthrope, Plebs, and Solitude about friendship, faith, and purity; brief poems by Mark Turbyfill; and Stefan Brazier’s Prison Sketches, stark visions of confinement, memory, fear, and revolt. In prose, there is a vivid eyewitness vignette placing Paderewski and Tagore in the same afternoon; swift editorial jabs at George Moore’s The Brook Kerith and the “great American novel” fad; and an impassioned appreciation of Nexø’s Pelle the Conqueror as art that humanizes labor. Ezra Pound denounces U.S. tariffs on foreign books for fostering cultural isolation. The editor’s note reports financial strain but vows persistence, while “The Reader Critic” prints fiery debates on art versus life and a Berlin dispatch on Marsden Hartley. A vers libre contest notice and ads close the number, rounding out a compact portrait of modernist energy and argument. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76166,908,'Reading ease score: 79.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76166,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76167,520,'"Stanley''s Emin Pasha expedition" by A.-J. Wauters is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It narrates Henry M. Stanley’s mission to relieve Emin Pasha in Equatorial Africa, framing it within the Mahdist revolt and the collapse of Egyptian power in the Sudan. The work combines political and military history with geography and ethnography, following routes via the Congo and Nile and profiling key actors such as Gordon, Lupton, Emin, and Junker.  The opening of the volume surveys the Mahdist uprising’s disruption of the Sudan and explains how isolated garrisons and explorers—especially Junker, Emin, and Casati—became cut off in the interior. It recounts Khartoum’s growth and misrule, the early Nile explorations by Speke, Grant, and Baker, and the rise of the ivory–slave “zeribas” exposed by Schweinfurth. The narrative then traces Gordon’s reforming tenure, Gessi’s campaigns against slave raiders, and the vast scope of the Egyptian Sudan before turning to the Mahdi’s victories, Hicks’s defeat, Osman Digna’s ascendancy, Gordon’s return to Khartoum, the siege, Wolseley’s delayed relief, and Gordon’s death. Next, it sketches the Bahr-el-Ghazal and Equatorial Provinces—their rivers, stations, and peoples (Bongo, Denka, Bari, Lattuka, Makraka, Madi)—and profiles Lupton Bey and Emin Bey’s administrations. It closes this opening section by introducing Junker and Casati’s work on the Welle system and their encounters among the Niam-Niam (Azande), setting the geographical stage for Stanley’s later advance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76167,908,'Reading ease score: 55.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76167,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76167,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76168,520,'"Room 13" by Edgar Wallace is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a fast-paced crime thriller centered on an ex-convict, a reformed mastermind, and a revenge plot that tangles forged banknotes with a ruthless marriage scheme. The story’s key figures include Johnny Gray (recently released from Dartmoor), the devoted father Peter Kane, his daughter Marney, and the vindictive Emanuel Legge with his elusive son Jeff, the “Big Printer.” Expect shifting loyalties, blackmail, and a deadly cat-and-mouse across England’s prisons, suburbs, and hotels.  The opening of the story follows Johnny Gray in Dartmoor, where prison gossip points to the notorious counterfeiter Jeff Legge. After Johnny receives word that Marney will marry “Major Floyd,” he is abruptly released and hurries to Peter Kane’s home, only to discover at the wedding that the groom is actually Jeff in disguise. Keeping calm to protect Peter, Johnny extracts information from Lila, a maid secretly working for the Legges, and confronts Emanuel on a train, where the old man tries to murder him by pushing him into a tunnel; Johnny survives and returns to London. Meanwhile, at their hotel, Jeff reveals his identity and vengeful purpose to Marney, who locks herself away as Jeff and Emanuel plot to regain control, with Lila’s sudden arrival hinting at fresh complications. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76168,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Room_13_(Wallace_novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76168,908,'Reading ease score: 84.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76169,520,'Pikakuvia Raja-Karjalasta by Ernst Lampén is a collection of travel sketches and cultural essays written in the early 20th century. It offers a vivid, witty portrait of Border Karelia—its people, beliefs, language, and folklore—set against the meeting of Orthodox and Lutheran traditions. Framed by a journey with a frontier major and encounters in places like Pitkäranta and Suistamo, the work blends on-the-road impressions with historical reflection.  The opening of the work begins with a playful meditation on inspiration—the “fly” that buzzes creative zeal into human heads—before turning to the narrator’s guide, Major Leo Kyander, an ardent admirer of Border Karelia. The narrator recalls a harrowing descent into the Pitkäranta mines and sketches lively vignettes of local life: an irreverent church guide, and portraits of famed runo-singers Onoila and Shemeikka, to suggest the region’s pagan-Christian weave. He then provides a brisk historical primer from medieval border partitions and confessional struggles through later wars, resettlement by Savonians, and shifting sovereignties that shaped today’s identities. Arriving via Sortavala to Pitkäranta, he meets his travel party, jokes about their Savonian roots, notes a landlord family turned Orthodox by marriage, and shares a tender scene with “Kokko-Mummo,” an elderly Orthodox woman whose piety moves him. The section closes as the group heads toward Suistamo, pausing at the apothecary and reflecting on how the new railway will transform a district famed for its singers even as the old runo tradition wanes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76169,908,'Reading ease score: 33.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76170,520,'"Neiti Liwin :  Romaani" by Marika Stiernstedt is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Miss Elma Liwin, a capable yet solitary woman in Stockholm whose outwardly respectable charity work hides a painful secret and a raw vulnerability to social judgment. After a humiliating slight from the admired Alexandra Pasch, Elma’s conflicts with respectability, desire, and independence come into focus. The story delves into hidden emotional dramas and the uneasy boundary between benevolence, hypocrisy, and longing.  The opening of the novel presents life as a set of silent dramas before dropping into a charity board meeting where Elma demands an explanation from Mrs. Pasch for calling her a “spinster,” then abruptly resigns. On her walk home through Humlegården, spring stirs memories of a youthful affair with a bandleader, an unwanted pregnancy, his rejection, a secret birth aided by a midwife, and the immediate surrender of her newborn—events that hardened her pride. In the present she lives with the breezy physiotherapist Rick Brunjohann; Mrs. Pasch’s expensive flowers and bland apology only sharpen Elma’s self-scrutiny. The scene then shifts to Tilda, a lively schoolgirl who finds a pearl cross in the park and returns it to Mrs. Pasch, meeting her son Alexis and hinting at new threads tying these lives together. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76170,908,'Reading ease score: 41.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76170,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76171,520,'"Derelicts of the hills by W. C. Tuttle" is a humorous Western short story written in the early 20th century. It follows two prospectors in a rough frontier settlement, mixing camp-life comedy with a tangle of romance and deception around a notorious mining man.  An Eastern visitor, Frederick Norwood, rides into the hills seeking Tellurium Woods and meets Ike Harper, who explains why Woods won’t be found and recounts the misadventures of his partner, Magpie Simpkins. Magpie, a kind but impractical dreamer dabbling in fads from psychology to spiritualism, falls hard for a Piperock waitress named Minnie, buys her a flashy ring, and plans a swift wedding. On the trail back to town, Ike and Magpie meet a bowlegged stranger, Gus Summers, hunting Woods with a shotgun for running off with his wife—Minnie. The truth hits Magpie, who quietly calls off his plans and heads back to the hills, chastened but steady, while Ike closes the tale with wry good humor as Magpie returns to his beans and their partnership endures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76171,908,'Reading ease score: 89.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76171,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76171,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76171,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76172,520,'"A bad penny" by John T. Wheelwright is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in an early 19th-century New England seaport, it follows Captain John Woodbury, his restless son James who longs for the sea, and the family upheaval sparked by the return of the disgraced, presumed-dead uncle, Thomas Cheever. The story blends maritime life, small-town politics, and moral tension as reputation, inheritance, and a boy’s future collide.  The opening of the novel paints Oldbury’s genteel world and Woodbury’s sturdy new house, then plunges into conflict: James balks at being groomed for the ministry while his father insists on college. At a tense family tea, a stuttering stranger from a Havana schooner proves to be Cheever, who recounts years of misery, demands his share of the estate, and slips away, leaving James to secretly deliver a ring and plea for forgiveness to Widow Pickering. Meanwhile, the canny Deacon Fairbanks deduces Cheever’s return, summons the constable, and delays a bank loan that Woodbury seeks to hasten the man’s departure. Warned by Alice Fairbanks of the impending arrest, James rushes to the harbor and boards the schooner to caution his uncle as night falls. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76172,908,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76172,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76172,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76172,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76173,520,'"Footprints :  A story of the snow by Annette Lyster" is a Victorian-era children''s moral novella, likely written in the late 19th century. Set on a Devonshire farm during a rare deep snowfall, it uses the snow—and the footprints it preserves and reveals—as a symbolic and literal means to uncover truth, explore guilt, and affirm repentance and forgiveness within a family.  During a snowbound winter, the Marlowe children delight in outdoor play while their elderly kinsman Jasper grows agitated and resolves to tell a long-concealed story. He recounts his youth as Jasper Helps, adopted alongside the generous Harry Franks by stern Hugh Marlowe, and his jealous slide into debt and bad company. Persuaded by a rogue named Harper, Jasper enables a midnight theft from the household bureau; Harper kills the beloved sheepdog, and circumstantial signs point to innocent Harry, who is jailed. A thaw later re-exposes earlier footprints in the snow, tracing Jasper’s and Harper’s movements and proving Harry’s innocence, though Jasper has already fled and fallen ill before eventually being found, forgiven, and restored through Harry’s steadfast kindness. In the present, Jasper confesses everything to the children during the storm; when the thaw returns, he dies quietly, leaving them a clear lesson about pride, truth, and the mercy that follows honest repentance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76173,908,'Reading ease score: 89.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76173,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76173,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76173,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76174,520,'"Legend-led" by Amy Le Feuvre is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. It blends lively domestic adventure with Arthurian playacting and a gentle Christian allegory, following the Thurston siblings—Donald, Claud, and Gypsy—under the easy care of their poetry-loving governess, Miss Gubbins. Central to the tale is Gypsy’s sincere resolve to seek the “Holy Thing” after hearing Tennyson’s Holy Grail, even as the children contend with their awe of their step-brother Victor (“the Ogre”) and befriend a witty, crippled young artist they dub “Sir Perceval.” The setting shifts from a seaside resort to a rambling country house where games, pranks, and moral questions intertwine.  The opening of Legend-led introduces the seaside life of the three high-spirited Thurstons, their territorial beach squabbles, and Miss Gubbins’ readings of the Arthurian legends that spark Gypsy’s private quest “to find” Jesus and the Grail. A Sunday beach talk about the “pearl of great price” and a bedroom text (“Those that seek Me early shall find Me”) deepen her resolve; after the family moves to an old Elizabethan house ruled by the formidable housekeeper Mrs. Peck, Gypsy slips out at dawn, kneels in a book-lined room with a stained-glass window, and mistakes its colored light for the Holy Grail. Meanwhile the boys roam, invent the dread “Agony” game, and Claud befriends a humorous, housebound illustrator at a nearby farm whom they nickname Sir Perceval. Victor’s return prompts a disastrous armor prank (Claud is captured and trussed), household changes begin, and Gypsy—allowed to use the library—brings her brothers at dawn only to be laughed at when they recognize the “Holy Thing” as sunlight through glass; soon after, a drive with Victor leads to a reunion with Irene from the beach and a visit to Sir Perceval, whom Victor is considering as a local tutor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76174,908,'Reading ease score: 89.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76174,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76174,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76174,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76175,520,'"... és a felelősségtől való rettegés" : "A kontárság kultuszának" folytatása by Émile Faguet is a political and legal essay written in the early 20th century. It argues that a cultural fear of responsibility has shaped French institutions since the Revolution, encouraging mechanical legality, bureaucratic dependence, and moral evasion. Building on his earlier critique of incompetence, Faguet probes how legal doctrines and administrative structures foster unaccountable judges and a subservient judiciary.  The opening of the work stakes a bold thesis: modern France strives to make decision-makers irresponsible, especially in law. Faguet contrasts judges who rigidly apply statutes (thereby avoiding moral judgment) with the older, precedent-shaping English judges and the Roman praetors who accepted real responsibility. He revisits Montesquieu versus Voltaire on the venality of offices, arguing that hereditary or purchased judicial posts once secured independence from the executive, whereas the Revolution tethered courts to the government, producing a double irresponsibility (strict textualism plus political dependence). To illustrate, he dissects a case against Cardinal Luçon about mixed public schools, accusing the court of trusting ministerial assurances, neglecting factual inquiry, and even twisting a legal opinion. He then analyzes the Dreyfus affair’s cassation ruling, claiming the court subtly inverted a procedural article to avoid remand, thereby serving state convenience while leaving the affair morally unresolved. The section closes by hinting at ministerial influence behind such outcomes, underscoring the book’s core theme: institutions engineered to evade accountability. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76175,908,'Reading ease score: 56.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76176,520,'"Kitty-cat tales" by Alice van Leer Carrick is a collection of children''s stories written in the early 20th century. Framed by a lonely girl named Dolly and her talking kitten Impty, it offers cat-centered fairy tales, fables, and folk retellings shared night by night. The tone is cozy and moral, with whimsical adventures and gentle humor told in a classic, read-aloud style.  The opening of this collection finds Dolly, left with strict Miss Jane while her parents are away, comforted by Impty, a black kitten who speaks and promises a new “Kitty-Cat tale” each night. First comes The White Cat, where a prince aided by a mysterious feline wins three trials and frees an enchanted princess. Next is the Japanese tale The King of the Field-Mice, rewarding a kind gardener while punishing a greedy neighbor. The Discontented Cat shows a cottage cat, dazzled by palace luxury and bullied by a lapdog, learning home is best. In The Cat Who Married a Mouse, a tom’s lies—Top-off, Half-Gone, All-Gone—end in betrayal and the mouse’s demise. Mother Michel and Her Cat follows Moumouth through a steward’s plots (drowning, poison, coercion) to a joyful return and the villain’s downfall. Two brief fables—Venus and the Cat and The Cat and the Fox—stress that nature doesn’t change and one sure trick beats a hundred vain ones. The excerpt closes as Dick Whittington begins: Dick finds work in London, sends his cat on a trading ship, nearly runs away, but the Bow Bells call him back just as the ship reaches a foreign court. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76176,908,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76177,520,'"Storm by Leland Jamieson" is an aviation adventure short story written in the late 1920s. Set in Texas, it follows a desperate race against nature after a tornado obliterates a small hill town, focusing on the perilous logistics of emergency aid. The likely topic is the courage and ingenuity of ordinary people and pilots under extreme pressure, as a risky flight is attempted to bring medical help to the devastated community.  A tornado levels Rock Springs, leaving chaos, injuries, and darkness. Mary Collins, the town’s telephone operator, struggles through the storm and lightning to reach a distant ranch and raise the alarm. In San Antonio, Doctor Wilson enlists Air Patrol pilot Nick Wentworth to fly him in an aging Vought with a leaking radiator. Their night flight forces an emergency landing; they improvise a water-feed from the wing tank and build a dirt ramp to claw into the air, damaging the landing gear. Battling headwinds and dwindling water, they reach the hills near Rock Springs, dead-stick into a tiny roadside field, and crash—but survive. Driven into town with Mary, they find relief that Wilson’s mother is safe, and the tale closes by honoring Mary’s grit while noting how close the daring air rescue came to failing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76177,908,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76177,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76177,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76177,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76178,520,'"I am a woman" by Ann Bannon is a novel written in the mid-20th century. The story follows Laura, a young woman who flees a domineering father for New York, where she seeks work, a home, and a sense of self while wrestling with forbidden desire. Her growing attachment to her beautiful roommate Marcie, the disruptive visits of Marcie’s ex-husband Burr, and the presence of a sharp, sympathetic gay friend shape a candid exploration of identity and longing.  The opening of the novel shows Laura breaking from her harsh, self-righteous father in Chicago—haunted by family tragedy—and arriving in New York to rebuild her life. She lands a temporary secretarial job in a radiologist’s office and moves into a shabby penthouse with Marcie, a charming, impulsive divorcée still entangled with her volatile ex, Burr. As Laura quietly guards her attraction to Marcie, a double date takes them to a Greenwich Village bar where Laura recognizes a world that mirrors her own hidden self. A late-night near-kiss is interrupted, and soon after, Burr’s friend Jack takes Laura out and gently but bluntly tells her he knows she’s gay—and that he is too—warning her about the risks of falling for a roommate as he begins to share his own cautionary story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76178,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Am_a_Woman',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76178,908,'Reading ease score: 87.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76178,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76178,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76178,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76179,520,'"Marseille, porte du Sud" by Albert Londres is a work of literary reportage written in the early 20th century. It offers a panoramic, witty, and incisive portrait of Marseille as France’s great gateway to the world, centering on its port, ships, cargoes, migrants, and workers. The focus is the city’s ceaseless circulation of people and goods between Europe and distant “Orients,” rendered through on-the-ground scenes, sharp social observation, and lyrical evocations of travel.  The opening of the book paints the port as a living voice inviting readers to embark toward every horizon, then unfurls Marseille as a monumental “door” through which nations, languages, and trades flow. The author tours the quays and their cargoes (from coffee and cotton to elephants and coal), celebrates the fever of export/import, and stages a vivid departure for China with chaotic traffic and boarding rituals. He sketches the Canebière as a migrators’ forum, recounts a thwarted reunion with the indefatigable Railly, and turns to the Joliette where dockers and broken charbonniers grind out a harsh day for a few francs. The Hotel des Emigrants becomes a crossroads of hopes—Levantines bound for Brazil with a single basket, Serbs, Georgians, Jews, and cyclical Romanian harvesters—set against both swindles and a self-made benefactor’s return; then comes the comic-sad miracle worker who “detattoos” the penitent, and finally the café tables of deep-sea officers, whose lives are measured in voyages rather than days. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76179,908,'Reading ease score: 85.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76179,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76179,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76180,520,'"Meren kansa" by Marc Elder is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a rugged island fishing community, it follows the quiet, driven fisherman Urbain Coët as he commissions a new boat and clashes with envy, superstition, and pride among his peers. His world includes his steadfast wife Marie-Jeanne, his younger brother Léon, the three-generation Goustav shipwrights, and jealous rivals like Julien Perchais and the Aquenette brothers.  The opening of the novel shows Urbain thwarting a nighttime attempt to burn his half-built boat and then guarding the shed through the dark, already sensing the malice of local competitors. By day we see the Goustavs’ traditional craft, the village’s gossip about a past shipwreck and rumored money, and rising taunts in the tavern. Urbain pointedly christens his vessel “Kadehtijain mieliharmi” (to spite the enviers), provoking a Sunday crowd to inspect the hull and sparking a scuffle with Tupla-Heikki. His cautious farmer father-in-law scolds the risk, underscoring the land–sea divide, while the townsfolk’s admiration mixes with resentment. The boat is launched to cheers as a squally wind builds; a fallen bouquet and a grizzled sailor’s remark unsettle Marie-Jeanne, Léon stays aboard to watch through the night, and the scene closes with the storm rising and a note of foreboding. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76180,908,'Reading ease score: 32.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76180,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76180,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76181,520,'"Teatterikirja :  Kirjoitelmia ja näyttelijäkuvia" by Lauri Haarla is a collection of theatre essays and actor portraits written in the early 20th century. The volume examines Finnish stage art in both aesthetics and practice, combining critical reflections on drama’s purpose with intimate psychological profiles of actors and discussions of theatre’s organization and craft.  The opening of this collection declares a mission to expand Finland’s sparse theatre literature, especially through psychologically acute actor studies, while also justifying practical essays on theatre as an institution. It begins with a major portrait of Hilda Pihlajamäki as a “priestess of destiny,” contrasting her era with Ida Aalberg’s and praising her extraordinary transformative power, dramatic instinct, and matured depth. An essay on theatre’s “heroic service” then surveys history from classical Greece through the Renaissance and Schiller to modern expressionism, contrasting apollonian passivity with faustian will and arguing for theatre’s moral, personality-centered mission in a time of upheaval. A profile of Aarne Leppänen highlights his exceptional capacity for self-surrender to roles and his range from active romantic heroes to suffering figures, alongside noted limits in rapid, cerebral dialogue. A brief “genesis” of the play Synti roots its inspiration in a childhood vision of innocent suffering and a 17th‑century Finnish setting and idiom. The section closes with a sensitive portrait of Tyyne Juntto—especially her consummate Acacia in Benavente—and the start of a theoretical piece on dramatic imperatives that rejects hazy romanticism and flattening naturalism/realism in favor of a tightened, will-driven, expressionist intensity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76181,908,'Reading ease score: 22.6 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76182,520,'"Memories (volume 1 of 2)" by Baron Algernon Bertram Freeman-Mitford Redesdale is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It offers an aristocratic life-story that mixes deep family genealogy with firsthand sketches of people, places, and public events, from a Northumbrian cradle to courts, embassies, and salons at home and abroad.  The opening of the book sets out the author’s aim to preserve private, character-revealing details about notable figures, and acknowledges help from contemporaries in verifying episodes (notably in Japan). It then ranges widely through his ancestry: the Mitford and Ashburnham lines, the Norman Bertram connection, the ruins and border wars around Mitford Castle, and the legend of the Hermit of Warkworth, before tracking forward to William Mitford the historian, John (1st Lord Redesdale) as Irish Lord Chancellor and his controversies, and the 2nd Lord Redesdale’s long parliamentary career. The narrative shifts to Batsford and family ties with the Ashburnhams, peppered with vivid anecdotes (a royal relic of Charles I, a Garter bestowed by George IV, musical and artistic circles in Florence). It then moves to the author’s own early years: birth, a stint at Exbury, childhood in Paris (Tuileries gardens, glimpses of Louis-Philippe, court gossip, émigré survivors’ stories, the old Morgue, bustling fairs), and formative summers at Trouville—local characters like the devoted Marie Letac, a theatrical quack dentist, and the seaside’s transformation into a chic resort under Dumas’s patronage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76182,908,'Reading ease score: 63.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76182,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76182,657);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76183,520,'"Memories (volume 2 of 2)" by Baron Algernon Bertram Freeman-Mitford Redesdale is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It presents an eyewitness account of diplomatic life and travel, especially in Japan during the fall of the shogunate and the rise of imperial government, alongside later episodes from the author’s public career. Expect energetic on-the-ground narratives—journeys, negotiations, and close shaves—featuring figures like Sir Harry Parkes, Ernest Satow, and future leaders such as Ito and Gotō.  The opening of this memoir follows the author on a perilous overland mission with Ernest Satow from the west coast into Kaga, where hospitality gives way to hostility in Echizen and a planned ambush near Ōtsu is narrowly avoided by a last-minute detour via Uji. Back in Ōsaka, the murder of two British sailors heightens tensions as the author meets Gotō Shōjirō and accompanies official visits that mix diplomacy with theatricals, then returns to Yedo to face nighttime intruders and the everyday violence of late-Tokugawa streets. Reassigned to prepare the opening of Ōsaka and Hiōgo, he witnesses mass religious festivities, the ex-Shōgun’s dispirited withdrawal to Ōsaka, and an audacious storm-bound dash at sea with Admiral Keppel and Captain Stanhope. Civil war breaks out around Fushimi; Ōsaka Castle burns, the Legation evacuates, and the author rides his mounted escort to safety through hostile country. At Kōbé, Bizen troops fire on foreign officials, leading to swift reprisals and the ritual suicide of their commander, followed by an Imperial proclamation declaring direct rule and the replacement of “Tycoon” with “Emperor.” Finally, sent with Dr. Willis to Kiōto to treat the ailing ex-prince Yōdo of Tosa, he gains a first look inside the sacred city—just as news arrives of the Sakai massacre of French sailors and severe French demands, leaving him uncomfortably placed amid Tosa power. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76183,908,'Reading ease score: 67.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76183,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76183,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76183,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76184,520,'"Further memories" by Baron Algernon Bertram Freeman-Mitford Redesdale is a collection of autobiographical essays and cultural reminiscences written in the early 20th century. It likely ranges across travel, art, religion, history, and gardening, using the author’s Cotswold garden and his love of Eastern art as a lens for wider reflections. Expect a blend of personal memory and learned digressions—from Buddhist lore to European culture—presented in a conversational, erudite tone.  The opening of this volume first presents Edmund Gosse’s introduction, which sketches the author’s late-blooming literary career, his cherished Batsford garden, the genesis of a planned essay-sequence called Veluvana, and the circumstances of his final years during wartime, culminating in his death. The text then shifts to the author’s own “Veluvana,” setting him in a bamboo-grove retreat where he denies having a Japanese-style garden, carefully describes its Eastern sculptures and curios, and uses them to launch vivid retellings of Buddhist legends—the Veluvana and Jétavana groves, the Buddha’s birth, renunciation, awakening, first sermon, and moral parables (Jātakas), even noting the medieval Christian echo in Barlaam and Josaphat. At the start of the next essay he contrasts Buddha’s serene revolt with violent revolutions, likens his renunciation to St. Francis, and critiques Brahmanism’s caste system, explaining its origins, terms, and evolution while highlighting Buddhism’s challenge to priestly authority. This opening section closes as he begins to cite comparative figures for the world’s religions to underscore Buddhism’s reach. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76184,908,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76185,520,'De groote betoovering by Selma Lagerlöf is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in 18th-century Värmland, it centers on a royal signet ring buried with General Bengt Löwensköld; when the ring is stolen, a chain of misfortune and obsession spreads through peasants and gentry alike, blurring superstition and justice. Early on we meet the Löwensköld family, the worried farmer Baard Baardson and his household, a sober-minded pastor, and a peaceable cavalry captain drawn into the ring’s ominous wake.  The opening of the novel presents the general’s portrait and his cherished ring from King Charles XII, buried with him in the family crypt. When the vault lies open after a child’s burial, Baard and his wife slip in at night, pry open the coffin, and take the ring; their home burns that same night, and a series of calamities follows. Years later, destitute and dying, Baard summons the pastor, confesses the theft, and hands over the ring; his son Ingilbert then tries to seize it on a marsh path but is foiled when the pastor escapes. After the pastor informs the Ritmeester, a search party goes into the woods and instead finds Ingilbert dead—apparently terrified to death—while the ring has vanished; suspicion shifts to three farmers carrying the body, who are arrested when only an empty goatskin purse turns up. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76185,908,'Reading ease score: 79.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76185,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76185,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76185,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76186,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0032: De blauwe dood" by Kurt Matull and Theo von Blankensee is a detective-adventure novella written in the early 20th century. It centers on the gentleman-criminal and sleuth Lord Lister (Raffles) as he confronts a dazzling but deadly actress, Evelin Bonn, whose charms ensnare wealthy men—including Lord Turkington—while a mysterious “blue death” lurks behind sudden, convenient heart failures. With his loyal aide Charly Brand, Lister navigates London high society, suspicious wills, and a possible poison plot, all while staying a step ahead of the police.  The opening of the story finds Lord Lister back in London, where a beauty-contest winner, Evelin Bonn, inflames Lord Turkington’s passion and sparks a rivalry with the aged Earl of Heresford. When Lister visits Heresford to arrange a duel, the earl collapses and dies moments after replying to Evelin’s letter; Lister quietly pockets the distinctive blue envelope. A visit to Evelin’s home, her anxious search for that same envelope, and a fatal experiment on a fox terrier lead Lister to deduce that the envelope’s gum is laced with a fast-acting poison—the “blue death.” Meanwhile, Evelin juggles suitors, pressing Turkington to will her his fortune and ensnaring a South African magnate, as Lister teams with notary Barrison to witness the legal maneuvers and set a trap for the schemers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76186,908,'Reading ease score: 74.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76187,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0126: Het politieraadsel" by Kurt Matull and Theo von Blankensee is a serialized crime-adventure story written in the early 20th century. The tale follows gentleman-criminal Lord Lister, alias Raffles, as he probes the sinister goings-on at the isolated castle Bartram-Haugh, where the domineering La Rougière keeps his daughter Charlotte and her governess Mademoiselle Rochefort under near-house arrest. Secret-society plots, regicide, and locked‑castle intrigue drive a rescue-and-infiltration mission led by Raffles and his companion Charly Brand.  The opening of the story sketches the gloomy history of Bartram-Haugh and its takeover by the secretive Frenchman La Rougière, who hates light, keeps vicious dogs, and controls every movement within the walls. Mademoiselle Rochefort arrives to teach Charlotte, clashes with the oppressive rules, wins the girl’s trust, and learns La Rougière leads nihilists behind recent royal assassinations; fearing for their lives, she seeks outside help. Raffles and Charly, in Derbyshire for “rest,” encounter the veiled pair, arrange a signal, and Raffles later scales the tower to retrieve a plea for rescue. That night he crosses the moat, silently neutralizes a guard dog, observes a clandestine meeting and a hidden cash box, then ambushes La Rougière and forces entry—just as the scene shifts toward alerting Charly and subduing the mute gatekeeper. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76187,908,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76188,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0328: Het raadsel van Niassa" by Matull, Blankensee, and Hageman is a serialized adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The tale centers on the gentleman-adventurer Lord Lister (alias John Raffles), who finds a medieval Latin manuscript describing fabulous hidden treasures and rumored prehistoric beasts near Lake Niassa, and decides to investigate by air. With his loyal secretary Charly Brand and indomitable chauffeur Henderson, he aims to penetrate an unmapped African interior where legend and danger converge.  The opening of the story follows Raffles, posing as Lord Aberdeen, through London’s Lombard Street of antiquarian bookshops, where he buys a genuine Latin manuscript that recounts a Roman-era journey to a secret trove beyond Lake Niassa. Back home he reveals his true identity, debates the manuscript’s plausibility with Charly, and lays out a bold plan: fly to East-Central Africa in his ultra-fast “Devil of the Air,” then proceed on foot if needed. After brisk preparations, route plotting, and a glimpse of Raffles’s hidden laboratory, the trio depart at night, cross France and the Mediterranean, skim North Africa, and pause briefly among friendly villagers before pushing on. They land near Maranda, meet Matabele led by Iwanda (who speaks some German), offer gifts, and ask about the mysterious lands east of the mountains. The locals react with dread, prostrating themselves and pleading with the strangers never to ask about that place, leaving the expedition poised on the edge of a forbidden secret. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76188,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76188,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76188,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76189,520,'"Benjamine : roman" by Jean Aicard is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on Benjamine, a thoughtful young woman in Cannes, whose domineering father, the shrewd deputy-financier Paul Guirand, plans a marriage of convenience with the Marquis de Courcieux while she harbors a sincere, long-nurtured affection for her childhood friend Jean Montchanin. The story sets love and integrity against ambition, social calculation, and political maneuvering under the glittering light of the Riviera.  The opening of the novel presents Guirand’s character—an eloquent, self-styled “experimental” republican whose ambition overrides scruple—and shows him bluntly decreeing his daughter’s marriage to Courcieux. We meet Benjamine’s moral anchor, her discreet and upright governess Mlle Berthe Lireux, and her mother Céleste, a sentimental but compliant social climber who urges submission and even quotes Shakespeare to lecture her on kisses. A backstory explains how the late marquise of Courcieux and Guirand quietly laid the groundwork for this alliance, prompting Courcieux to leave the navy to fulfill his mother’s wish. Benjamine struggles to name her feelings, while Jean—an industrious young official shaped by cool, utilitarian maxims—arrives unexpectedly, confesses his love, and, daunted by the imposed match, resolves to withdraw. A single “farewell” kiss binds them emotionally, and the section closes with Benjamine inwardly fixed on the conviction that she can belong to no one else. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76189,908,'Reading ease score: 84.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76189,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76189,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76189,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76190,520,'"A Confederate surgeon''s letters to his wife" by Spencer Glasgow Welch is a collection of wartime letters written in the mid-19th century. The work presents a Confederate army surgeon’s frontline perspective on marches, battles, medical duty, and camp life in the Army of Northern Virginia. It centers on his experiences with South Carolina regiments, blending eyewitness detail with personal reflections for his wife and child.  The opening of the collection begins with an editor’s note about condensing the letters for historical value, then follows Welch from May 1862 near Fredericksburg through forced marches, sickness, the Seven Days around Richmond, and Jackson’s hard-driving maneuvers, all amid scarce rations and overflowing field hospitals. He gives close, practical accounts of his medical work at Second Manassas and Ox Hill, the grim toll of amputations and deaths, and the daily realities of hunger, gear shortages, discipline, and occasional picket fraternization. Winter 1862–63 covers Fredericksburg, relative quiet along the Rappahannock, and reflections on morale; at Chancellorsville he labors at the field infirmary through the assault and notes heavy losses and brief cooperation with Union surgeons under a flag of truce. He then traces the march up the Valley into Pennsylvania, requisitions on the countryside, and a detailed, day-by-day view of Gettysburg, followed by the rain-soaked retreat, a cavalry surprise at Falling Waters, and the deaths of key officers. Back in Virginia he records a lull near Orange Court House, executions for desertion, an autumn maneuver that pushes Meade back, a sorrowful return from furlough after his child’s death, and a harsh winter softened by boxes from home. The section closes with the spring 1864 campaign—the Wilderness’ chaotic, close-quarters fighting and Spotsylvania’s “Bloody Angle,” where he lists leaders hit and captures the unbroken roar of musketry as both sides hold on in brutal combat. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76190,908,'Reading ease score: 80.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76191,520,'"Geschichten" by Robert Walser is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book offers playful, lyrical vignettes that blend irony, tenderness, and daydream with quick shifts between art, love, nature, and city life. Recurring figures include self-regarding poets, a roving page, stage folk, and flâneurs, all hovering between illusion and the everyday.  The opening of the collection moves from six miniature pieces—mocking a poet’s self-importance, personifying memory as a fragile lute, staging a charged piano lesson, and trapping artists inside their own imaginations—to a longer tale in which the shabby mandolin-player Simon becomes page to the alluring Klara and brazenly faces her looming husband. Next come two sharp fables: a threadbare “genius” who reshapes the world only to remain unhelpable, and an upside-down world of social reversal swallowed at last by divine negation. Subsequent sketches pivot between stage and street: a spent clown eclipsed by an angelic boy dancer, a too-perfect “puppet” city dismissed as unreal, a rapturous swim on a small lake, a panoramic account of a forest fire and civic frenzy, a melancholy Sunday park stroll, and an armchair voyage to Moscow that dissolves back into a quiet room. The sequence also includes a harrowing theater conflagration with a stoic rescuer, a sensual Maria Stuart monologue, and a bustling “Lustspielabend” in a playhouse that ends mid-scene. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76191,908,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76191,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76191,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76192,520,'"Land and peoples of the Kasai :  Being a narrative of a two years'' journey…." by M. W. Hilton-Simpson is a travel narrative and ethnographic account written in the early 20th century. It follows a two-year expedition across the Kasai and Sankuru basins of the Congo, documenting landscapes, river travel, and the lifeways of peoples such as the Batetela, Basonge, Bushongo, and Bankutu. Readers can expect close, first-hand observations of customs, music, material culture, and field methods, set against the realities of colonial transport, trade, and missions, with a declared focus on science rather than politics.  The opening of the narrative explains how a planned Sahara journey was abandoned, leading to a Congo expedition organized with ethnographer Emil Torday (with museum backing and a painter in tow), logistical support from the Kasai Company, and cooperation from the colonial administration. The author outlines Torday’s research approach—learning languages, avoiding interpreters, and sourcing information from tribal insiders—then begins the voyage: a sober mail-boat to Matadi, formalities in Boma, the hot, rocky rail climb to Stanley Pool, and days measuring and photographing diverse peoples around Kinshasa and Leopoldville. The river journey up the Congo and into the Kasai is vivid with storms, telegraph posts, and wildlife-packed reaches like Wissman Pool, before arriving at Dima, the company’s headquarters, where staffing, pay in trade goods, provisioning, and health are sketched in detail and the plan is set to study Batetela and Bushongo communities. Subsequent chapters recount the slow steamer trip to Batempa, a Christmas marked by the mysterious “yuka/bembe” animal’s cry, Basonge music and dance (with notes on cannibalism’s decline and changing trade), the hiring and training of youthful “boys,” and the overland march through Batetela villages—culminating at Osodu, where a local succession dispute explains rumors of unrest, yet the travellers are welcomed and asked to intercede for an imprisoned chief. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76192,908,'Reading ease score: 51.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76192,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76192,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76193,520,'"Mr. Ray''s travels, Vol. 2 : A collection of curious travels and voyages.…." by John Ray is a collection of travel narratives and natural history observations written in the mid-18th century. It gathers translated journeys and reports focused on the Levant and wider Ottoman world—Greece, Asia Minor, Egypt, Arabia, and Ethiopia—emphasizing geography, customs, trade, and plants. Readers will find firsthand itineraries enriched with ethnographic detail and long botanical lists compiled from multiple travelers.  The opening of this volume lays out an extensive table of contents and then begins Dr. Leonhart Rauwolf’s travelogue into the Eastern Mediterranean. He states his botanical aims, travels overland from Augsburg to Marseilles noting towns and plants, and then undertakes a stormy, wind-driven passage past Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, and Cyprus, including a brief audience with an Ottoman officer at Salamis, before reaching Tripoli. On arrival he describes a scuffle at the gate and then sketches Tripoli’s setting, irrigated gardens and fruits, flat-roofed houses, narrow paved streets, caravanserais, and especially the public baths and their routines (washing, depilation, and massage). He surveys trade and governance: European consuls and fondiques, bustling bazaars, silk and raisin commerce, soap and potash making from local halophytic plants, coinage, and the roles of Ottoman officials and courts, with examples of both punishments and corruption alongside avenues of appeal. Rauwolf also notes everyday manners—dress, music and games, washing habits, women’s seclusion and cemetery visits, and funeral customs. The section closes by starting a catalog of local flora around Tripoli, from shore plants to ricinus, squills, and sugar-canes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76193,908,'Reading ease score: 64.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76193,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76193,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76193,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76194,520,'"Hearts in exile" by John Oxenham is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in late-Tsarist Russia, it centers on Hope Arskaïa, a resolute idealist devoted to “the people,” and the two men who love her: earnest Paul Pavlof and wealthy Serge Palma. When Hope marries Serge on the condition that his fortune support her social work, all three are drawn into the ruthless machinery of repression and Siberian exile. The story explores love, sacrifice, and moral courage under autocracy.  The opening of the novel follows Paul’s restrained proposal and Hope’s refusal in favor of a marriage of duty to Serge, whose money can further her humanitarian work in Odessa. Serge grows into her mission, but after a high-profile assassination the crackdown begins; he is arrested and vanishes, while Hope’s desperate search ends in collapse and a frail recovery as she gives birth in the countryside. The scene shifts to Tomsk’s forwarding prison and the Great Siberian Road, where Paul—himself seized under administrative process—encounters a grim procession of convicts, a kindly old man with a squeaking barrow, a child clinging to her cat, a failed mass escape, and a brutal reprisal that turns one prisoner into an avenger. As the convoys push east and the two men meet again in the stockade, Paul quietly resolves the triangle by trading places with Serge: he takes the harsher road to Kara, while Serge is assigned to the provinces with a real chance to slip away and find Hope. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76194,908,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76194,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76194,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76194,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76194,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76195,520,'"The Mulfuzāt Timūry = or, Autobiographical memoirs of the Moghul emperor Timūr" by Timūr is a historical autobiographical memoir written in the early 15th century. Dictated in Jagtay Turki and later rendered into Persian (and then English), it blends personal narrative with political “Institutes,” maxims of rule, and religious reflection. It follows the rise of Timūr from Transoxiana, framing conquest through justice, discipline, Islamic piety, and the counsel of saints and omens. Expect genealogy, campaigns, court craft, and guidance for successors.  The opening of this chronicle presents the editor’s and translator’s prefaces (stressing sources and authenticity) and Abu Talib Husayni’s statement that he found a Turki original in Yemen and translated it into clear Persian for princes. Timūr’s voice then lays out twelve governing rules—strict justice, truthfulness, compassion, obedience to Islamic law, honoring the Prophet’s descendants, valuing scholars, keeping promises, and shunning greed—alongside the ideal of the just monarch as “Shadow of God” and the need for wise ministers. A sequence of dreams, omens, and saintly endorsements underscores his mandate: visions of the Prophet, the “white standard” of ‘Alī before Anatolia, counsel in dealings with Tughluk Timūr and the Jete, favorable horoscopes, battlefield portents, and episodes that justify both iconoclasm in India and acts of clemency (such as sparing Shiraz at a Syed’s plea). The narrative then turns to his beginnings—his name linked to a Qur’anic verse, early schooling and leadership games, his father’s pious counsel and genealogy, blessings from saints promising dominion, brushes with danger and illness, and training in horsemanship and the arts of war. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76195,908,'Reading ease score: 38.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76195,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76195,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76195,664);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76195,665);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58335,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Stewart_(orientalist)');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76196,520,'"Aus der Geschichte der menschlichen Dummheit" by Max Kemmerich is a polemical cultural critique written in the early 20th century. It charts how human folly—above all religious literalism and institutional dogmatism—has warped judgment and public life, illustrating its case with pointed historical anecdotes and learned references. The likely focus is on exposing the intellectual and moral costs of unexamined authority, especially where biblical infallibility is invoked.  The opening of the book sets a modest scope in a foreword, then argues that treating the Bible as an absolute measure of truth is a test of intelligence: either one renounces verbal inspiration where facts contradict scripture, or one commits a basic error of reasoning. It dissects papal power claims built on “Tu es Petrus,” contrasts clerical shrewdness with secular credulity, and parades the absurdities of medieval scholastic hair-splitting and rabbinic casuistry as symptoms of authority-bound thinking. A long series of early modern and modern examples follows—Protestant tracts on angels as matchmakers, Paradise as a feudal fief, faith in the womb, reasons God gave no savior to fallen angels, the timing and season of Creation, denial of antipodes, global deluge physics, the persistence of geocentrism, “scriptural geology,” and even a biblicized evolutionary fantasy about Adam—showing how blind literalism stifles science and common sense. At the start of the second chapter, the author pivots to asceticism, distinguishing sensible self-discipline from self-destructive mortification, critiquing temperance absolutism and rigid fasting rules. He then sketches striking cases of extreme diet and self-denial among early Christians and Manichaeans, strict Orthodox fasts, and grotesque strategies to combat sexual desire, including self-injury and neurotic avoidance of women. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76196,908,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76196,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76196,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76196,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76197,520,'"Frau Rietschel das Kind" by Georg Hirschfeld is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on a young Berlin jurist posted to a provincial town whose ambition and social calculation collide with genuine feeling, drawing him and a local confectioner’s daughter into a fraught relationship under the gaze of a judgmental community and a domineering family patron. The book explores desire, class, and respectability between small-town Strelenwalde and the pull of Berlin, focusing on Viktor Schwarz, Liese Prutz, and the powerful Justizrat Joachim.  The beginning of the novel follows Viktor, newly lodged opposite the Prutz confectionery, as a playful window flirtation with Liese deepens into courtship amid town gossip and her father’s suspicion. A visit from Viktor’s influential uncle brings an ultimatum: abandon Liese and secure a wealthy Berlin match or lose his career. After an intimate Pentecost tryst, Liese discovers she is pregnant and urges Viktor to ask her father for her hand; instead, he panics, flees to Berlin, and sends a coldly rational letter breaking off. Liese is cast out by her father but taken in by her loyal aunt, while Viktor, aided by relatives, covers his retreat with a story of nervous collapse, angles for advancement in Berlin, and allows himself to be steered toward an advantageous marriage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76197,908,'Reading ease score: 86.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76197,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76197,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76198,520,'"The folk-lore of China : and its affinities with that of the Aryan and Semitic…." by N. B. Dennys is a scholarly comparative folklore study written in the late 19th century. It surveys Chinese popular beliefs, superstitions, rituals, and legends and sets them alongside Aryan and Semitic traditions to show striking parallels and probable common roots. Organized systematically from life-cycle rites to omens, charms, ghosts, dragons, nature lore, legends, fables, and proverbs, it argues that Chinese folk-belief is unusually pervasive across all classes and institutions. The work aims to be both a compendium of practices and a comparative argument about shared myth-making across cultures.  The opening of the work explains that it compiles earlier articles, acknowledges limited access to sources, and thanks contributors, then makes the case that China is a vast, under-studied field for folklore, whose beliefs closely resemble Western ones in principle but dominate daily life from emperor to peasant. The introduction reviews European scholarship, urges a systematic plan (birth–marriage–death, days and seasons, omens, charms, the supernatural, legends, fables), notes the role of almanacs and cheap print in preserving lore, and advances the idea of a common origin with Aryan traditions, illustrated by courtly astrology and ubiquitous geomancy. Early chapters sample practices around birth (hour-of-birth charts and verses, fertility shoes or flowers from a child goddess, demon-frightening rites, taboos like not rocking an empty cradle, postnatal talismans), marriage (rings and betrothal tokens, sieving garments over fire, veils, symbolic altar objects, honeyed wine, candle omens, cakes, threshold rites, shoe symbolism, playful contests of dominance), and death (coffin customs, lights and “saining”-like rites, roof holes for the soul, white cock emblems, vigil beliefs, paper offerings, earth on the coffin, feng-shui graves, white mourning, and dread of disturbing burials). It then outlines lucky and unlucky days and seasons (a marked weekly “rest” day of Persian derivation, the moon festival, tabulated day-qualities, New Year “first-foot” and first-words omens, and a Chinese analogue to St. Swithin), before beginning a section on portents from daily mishaps and animals (oil spills, crows, magpies, dogs, cats, crowing hens, swallows, bats, owls). (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76198,908,'Reading ease score: 63.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76199,520,'"La vita nell''esercito : Novelle militari" by A. Olivieri Sangiacomo is a collection of short military stories written in the late 19th century. It paints a many-sided portrait of Italian army life—on campaign, in barracks, at the draft office, and in town—blending humor, sentiment, and tragedy. Across vivid vignettes it follows officers, conscripts, civilians, and lovers caught up in duty, desire, camaraderie, and fate.  The opening of the collection presents a swift suite of tales. First, a personified Toledo sabre recounts its forging, glory in war, elegant Milanese refit, and tragic end as a relic after the young hussar who bears it falls in battle. Next, a witty officer-narrator surveys a decade of bachelor life through “camere mobiliate,” skewering the temptations of landladies and the pitfalls of rented rooms. A New Year’s “gran rapporto” shows the regiment’s rituals, mail-call gossip, and a colonel’s sharp rebukes over uniforms. A Neapolitan sketch turns dark when a consegnato corporal slips out to meet his sweetheart and is knifed by her jealous fisherman husband. Then come scenes at the Barletta draft: medical exams, horse-trading of assignments, mothers crowding the gates, chaotic kit issues, and a tearful train departure. Finally, a farewell eve in a small town finds bands playing, banquets and speeches underway, as the regiment prepares to change garrison. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76199,908,'Reading ease score: 43.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76199,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76200,520,'"Only Seven Were Hanged" by Stuart Martin is a crime novel written in the early 20th century. Framed as a sharp debate over capital punishment, it follows a Criminal Court judge and a mysterious waiter inside the exclusive Clue Club as they trade real-case narratives to test whether death sentences can ever be just. The stories unfold as dueling proofs, blending courtroom logic, moral philosophy, and twist-laden crime tales.  The opening sets the scene on Christmas Eve at the Clue Club, where the chairman-judge presides and a substitute waiter quietly subverts proceedings. After the club affirms its support for capital punishment, the waiter interrupts, drugs the members into unconsciousness, and challenges the judge: for each case the judge proves deserving of death, one member will be revived; for each unjust case, one remains under. The judge first cites the chilling murder by Ammar Baddan, a Tamil who calmly admits killing an innkeeper; the waiter counters with an honor-and-religion motive that recasts the act within a different code. The waiter’s own case follows: he argues that John Davis, hanged for drowning his former partner Lorry Black, was framed—then reveals he is Black, alive, having staged his “death.” The judge, shaken but resolute, begins a second example about Abe Lammie, a ruthless burglar dubbed “The Mole,” as the duel of stories—and stakes—intensifies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76200,908,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76201,520,'‘Trusty and well beloved’ :  the little record of Arthur Oscar Hornung, Second…. by E. W. H. is a memorial biography and collection of wartime letters written in the early 20th century. It traces the brief service and bright spirit of Second Lieutenant Arthur Oscar Hornung of the Essex Regiment in World War I, using his own lively correspondence and a parent’s framing notes. The focus is on his enthusiasm, comradeship, and duty from enlistment to the front, and on the love and pride of those who knew him.  The opening of the book follows Oscar from eager enlistment and training to his first journey up the Seine and days at Rouen, where he revels in sights, friends, and anticipation of action. A bout of illness lands him in hospital at Le Tréport, after which he reaches the Ypres sector; his letters vividly describe trench work, gas alarms, night wiring, rations, jokes, and his deep care for his men. He writes of a retreat under heavy shelling, a daring bombing foray that leaves him slightly wounded, and the death of his servant Crump, all with undimmed cheer and candor. The section closes with the editor’s stark account of Oscar’s death during a bombardment, followed by moving tributes from Eton, comrades, and his sergeant-major. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76201,908,'Reading ease score: 76.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76202,520,'"Karolus :  Historiallinen kertomus Viron kansan vapausajan alkupuolelta" by Järv is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. It depicts the forced Christianization, rising serfdom, and resistance of the Estonian people under Danish-German rule, following the fates of the defiant peasant Oglas, his steadfast wife Saale, and their son Karolus, who is raised by the Danish lord Arnolf von Ludinghausen and torn between privilege and conscience. The story centers on moral courage, oppression, and the clash between faith as preached and power as practiced.  The opening of the novel shows peasants compelled to build a fortress wall at Lämela; Oglas urges them to stop forging their own chains and leads them to symbolically wash away baptism, after which Ludinghausen has them enslaved and families torn apart. A planned massacre of drunken nobles during a feast is betrayed—Saale informs to prevent bloodshed—leading to executions and dispersals; the child Kahro is seized, renamed Karolus, and raised by Ludinghausen. Growing up, Karolus rejects the priesthood after witnessing clerical hypocrisy, turns to arms, defends abused peasants, distinguishes himself in battle, and is made a vassal, yet remains troubled by his people’s misery and falls in love with Arnolf’s daughter Kordelia, who reveals his lineage from the fallen Estonian king Warpo. After thwarting villains who menace Kordelia and sheltering fugitives, Karolus petitions the estates to curb brutality; the nobles explode in outrage, strip his rights, and have him imprisoned. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76202,908,'Reading ease score: 44.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76202,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76202,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76203,520,'"Le chalet dans la montagne : voyages vrais et imaginaires" by Eugène Montfort is a collection of travel writing and short stories written in the early 20th century. Blending real Alpine journeys with imagined episodes, it dwells on sublime landscapes, solitude, and the psychology of desire. In the titular tale, a young traveler encounters a married woman at a mountain hospice, and a delicate, ethically fraught attraction unfolds amid storms, glaciers, and crowded inn-terraces.  The opening of this volume follows a twenty-year-old traveler ascending to the Col du Lautaret, where a tempest drives tourists into an overfull hospice and he becomes fascinated by a graceful young woman. Discovering their rooms connect, he watches, then makes contact: flowers offered, murmured talk, and a confession that she is married, lonely, and awaiting her husband. A teasing dawn exchange through the door leads to an afternoon walk; he follows her into the high meadows, they gather edelweiss, he “reads” her palm, and innocent intimacies (like drinking from his cupped hands) coexist with restrained longing. As evening falls, she avoids a rendezvous; later, trusting his promise to be “wise,” she admits him to her room. He misreads the situation, makes a sudden advance, she resists, and he withdraws in shame. The section ends with his anguished self-reproach and recognition of her candor and purity, set against the vast, luminous mountain solitude. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76203,908,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76203,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76203,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76203,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76204,520,'"Nykyisten kauheuksien juuret Itämerenmaakunnissa" by A. Meurman is a historical essay written in the early 20th century. It investigates the roots of contemporary violence in the Baltic provinces, tracing them to centuries of conquest, clerical and noble domination, serfdom, and the failure of ruling elites to integrate with the native population, which fostered durable ethnic and class hatred.  The opening of the work poses a stark question about the source of recent atrocities in Russia’s Baltic provinces and answers it by surveying a long history of oppression. It sketches the pattern of medieval expansion—merchant, bishop, and crusading orders—contrasting England and Finland (where elites eventually blended with locals) with Livonia, where German lords remained apart. The author outlines indigenous social organization and the region’s exposed geography, then illustrates the cycle of revolt and reprisal through the St. George’s Night uprising of 1343 and its brutal suppression. He catalogs peasant burdens and legal subjugation under Polish, Swedish, and later Russian rule, highlighting repeated reform attempts blunted by an intransigent nobility. Reports under Catherine II expose extreme abuses; 19th‑century measures (1804, 1819) grant limited personal freedom but often worsen conditions by stripping land rights and preserving corporal punishment. Schools serve Germanization and even temperance efforts are undermined, yet some peasants slowly gain land. The section concludes that today’s violence grows from this uninterrupted history of domination and resentment, and that only genuine social merging could avert renewed catastrophe. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76204,908,'Reading ease score: 20.4 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76204,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76204,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76204,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76204,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76205,520,'"The Spring Song" by Forrest Reid is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Griffith Weston (Grif), a sensitive boy spending the summer with his clergyman grandfather in the countryside, where music, dreams, and the natural world stir his imagination. Eccentric adults—a nocturnal organist and an old sea-captain with his sisters—signal a gentle mystery threaded with hints of the supernatural. The tone is pastoral and inward, suggesting a coming‑of‑age story in which Grif’s inner life and strange encounters shape a quiet adventure.  The opening of the novel introduces Grif and his siblings arriving by train to their grandfather’s glebe house under the watch of Miss Johnson and accompanied by Pouncer the bulldog. Grif meets the odd organist Clement Bradley and, choosing a room by the wood, lies awake amid whispering trees and a faint flute‑note that deepens the book’s dreamy mood. A croquet tournament is planned; Edward returns early from school with his clever friend Palmer Dorset, family dynamics spark (including Edward’s resented nickname “Angelina”), and Miss Johnson’s melodramatic manuscript provides comic relief at dinner. Wandering next day through the wood, Grif slips through a garden door to the red‑brick home of Captain Narcissus Batt and his sister Miss Nancy, is kindly received, and hears of the absent Billy Tremaine before drifting to the church, where Bradley startles at a “ghost” and discovers Grif’s sweet voice; when Grif finally returns late, worried adults and a curate await him, and the canon quietly explains that Billy died, darkening the gentle mystery that has begun. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76205,908,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76205,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76205,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76206,520,'"Ruth Fielding at Golden Pass :  or, the perils of an artificial avalanche" by Alice B. Emerson is a young adult adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows motion-picture pioneer Ruth Fielding as she premieres her latest hit and then leads her company west to film a new drama amid the peaks and canyons of Montana’s Golden Pass. Professional rivalries, a temperamental leading lady, and the dangers of mountain filmmaking—including a staged avalanche—put Ruth, her chum Helen, and business partner Tom to the test.  The opening of the novel finds Ruth back in Cheslow for the triumphant premiere of her film “Snowblind,” where a sudden explosion and smoke cause a theater panic until Tom rescues her. Reunited with old Briarwood friends and buoyed by praise from studio head Mr. Hammond, Ruth commits to a new Western picture at Golden Pass. She signs rugged star Layton Boardman (to Tom’s unease about rival mogul Sol Bloomberg) and hires glamorous, volatile Viola Callahan despite the cost. After a warm house party at the Red Mill, the company heads west, and in Chicago Ruth spots Viola in furtive talk with Bloomberg’s agent, stirring suspicion yet not halting the trip. They reach Montana, take quarters at Headwaters Ranch, and as Boardman’s horsemanship wins over the cowboys, Ruth readies to scout locations for the perilous mountain scenes ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76206,908,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76206,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76206,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76206,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76206,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76207,520,'"Injuneered by W. C. Tuttle" is a humorous Western short story written in the early 20th century. Set in and around the frontier town of Piperock, it spins a comic tangle of poker, pride, and pandemonium when a showy visitor arrives with a makeshift circus. The story pokes fun at small-town rivalries and swindles, centering on a menagerie—elephant, lion, tiger, and calliope—that turns the West into a slapstick carnival.  The narrator, Ike Harper, and his friend Dirty Shirt Jones watch Chief Axlegrease, an oil-rich show-off, roll into Piperock with wagons, a family, a calliope-playing Swede, and caged beasts. Local scamp Runnin’ Wolf cheats him in a midnight poker game and wins the whole outfit, only to sell it on to their rivals from Yaller Horse. Dirty slaps a legal claim on half the circus, the sheriff is whisked off on the elephant, and the town spirals into chaos: animals go hungry, the lion Judas and tiger Jessie James get hidden in the livery’s grain room, and Ike brawls blindly with the tiger in the dark. An elephant jam tears down the stable front, an out-of-control automobile piles into the mess, and the truth finally lands—Axlegrease had only rented the circus. The rightful owner reclaims the animals, the rivals lick their wounds, Dirty laments his lost stake, and Ike closes with the rueful memory of once owning a lion—briefly. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76207,908,'Reading ease score: 92.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76207,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76207,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76207,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76208,520,'"His brother''s keeper by W. C. Tuttle" is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. Set in a scorched desert valley, it examines a hard-bitten sheriff’s absolute devotion to the law and how that zeal collides with fate, family, and frontier justice.  Sheriff “Duty” Deming alienates his wife and drives away his children by enforcing the law without mercy, even sending his own son to prison on dubious evidence. After arresting a sick hobo for train-hopping, Deming contracts a fever and still rides alone into the lava beds to capture Red Cowan, accused of murdering rancher Al Mitchell. Collapsing in the wasteland, he is found and nursed by Cowan—who is innocent and keeps the sheriff alive at an abandoned ranch. Delirious and obsessed with duty, Deming tries to arrest Cowan and fires wildly, only to die as his former deputy arrives with the truth: the real killer, Slim Delong, confessed before dying, and Mitchell had framed Deming’s son. The story closes on the bitter irony that Deming’s worship of his badge—his “other god”—ultimately destroys him, even as justice belatedly clears his boy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76208,908,'Reading ease score: 93.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76209,520,'Brackenridge''s Journal of a voyage up the river Missouri, 1811; Franchère''s… by H. M. Brackenridge and Gabriel Franchère is a collection of historical travel narratives written in the early 20th century. It reprints firsthand accounts of early 19th-century exploration and the fur trade, from a voyage up the Missouri with Manuel Lisa to the Astorian venture on the Northwest Coast, highlighting river navigation, frontier settlements, encounters with Indigenous nations, and the emerging American West.  The opening of the volume frames the texts with an editor’s preface that sketches both writers’ careers and the significance of their narratives, then begins with Brackenridge’s own preface and journal. He explains the Missouri Fur Company’s aims and setbacks, Manuel Lisa’s leadership, and his plan to overtake Wilson Hunt’s party for safer passage through Sioux country. The narrative then launches from St. Charles, detailing difficult river work, storms, islands and tributaries, hunters’ camps, wildlife encounters, and scattered settlements, culminating in a stop at Fort Osage with observations of the Osage people and the factory before pushing onward, still intent on catching Hunt upriver. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76209,908,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76209,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76209,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76209,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76210,520,'"Roughing it in Siberia, with some account of the Trans-Siberian railway, and…." by Robert L. Jefferson is a travel narrative written in the late 19th century. It follows a winter journey across the Urals and deep into Western and Central Siberia by train and sledge, mixing vivid reportage of the new Trans-Siberian line with sketches of frontier towns, emigrant caravans, Cossack life, and the gold-mining economy. Expect candid, unvarnished observations on Russian travel, lodging, food, and officialdom alongside clear explanations of colonization policy and infrastructure. Readers interested in railways, empire, and hard travel will find a first-hand, opinionated guide.  The opening of the book follows the narrator and three companions as their slow train crosses the Urals into Asia amid stifling carriages and raucous station buffets, reaching Chelyabinsk and the threshold of the Trans-Siberian. He sketches theatrical station rituals and a tussle with officious chinovniks, then turns to the vast snowy steppe and Kurgan to explain Russia’s colonization drive—cheap fares, land grants, and emigrants packed into cattle cars. Observations on church dominance and military discipline include an anecdote contrasting Russian obedience with Western soldiers. Arriving at Omsk by hurtling sledge, they find wretched lodgings and a merchant city wary of the railway; he also visits Khirghiz Cossack camps. The party is ferried by sledge over the hummocked, frozen Obi between Kreveschokovo and Ob, waits long hours at Tigre in deep forest, and jolts on the shabby Tomsk branch. In Tomsk, amid extreme cold and foul hotels, he surveys the town, calls on a rough millionaire gold-miner, tours the Government assay and vaults with a mining chief, and outlines strict rules facing prospectors. He closes this opening section with critical notes on the poorly laid, curve-ridden mountain stretches that slow the line eastward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76210,908,'Reading ease score: 62.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76210,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76211,520,'"Mamba''s Daughters: A Novel of Charleston" by DuBose Heyward is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Mamba, an aging Black waterfront woman, as she leverages charm, cunning, and social performance to secure a future for her daughter Hagar and granddaughter Lissa by attaching herself to Charleston’s genteel Wentworths and, later, the status-seeking Atkinsons. In parallel, it tracks the coming-of-age struggles of Saint Wentworth, a sensitive misfit searching for purpose. The book explores class, race, and survival across Charleston’s drawing rooms, kitchens, and docks.  The opening of the novel shows Mamba’s calculated “invasion” of the Wentworth household, beginning with a bouquet of roses for young Polly and continuing through strategic kindnesses, songs with the family’s old servant Maum Netta, and conspicuous services that bind the genteel widow and her children to her. As years pass, Saint falters at school and work while Mamba becomes a quiet fixture at soirées and in the kitchen, then helps run a summer boardinghouse where a comic crisis—the judge losing his teeth—becomes her chance to acquire a set of teeth and a new persona. Returning to town, she boldly asks the Wentworths for recommendations and parlayed respectability, which lands her as nurse in the Atkinson household. Meanwhile, Saint finally finds work as a commissary clerk at a phosphate camp under the practical mentorship of Mr. Raymond, and in the Black Quarter Mamba’s daughter Hagar—prone to trouble despite her love for little Lissa—gets cheated by river firemen, seizes one on the wharf, and a tense fight breaks out as onlookers gather. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76211,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mamba%27s_Daughters',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76211,908,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76211,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76211,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76212,520,'"Kate plus 10" by Edgar Wallace is a novel written in the early 20th century. It’s a brisk crime thriller about Kate Westhanger, a brilliant young strategist at the center of a refined criminal network, and Inspector Michael Pretherston, the sharp, sardonic detective who knows her best. Set amid London’s high society and the notorious “Crime Street,” it promises a cat‑and‑mouse game of audacious schemes, social satire, and personal sparring.  The opening of the novel follows a seemingly simple mystery—Lady Moya Felton’s missing pearl necklace—swiftly solved by Pretherston, who then exposes Moya’s efficient secretary “Miss Tenby” as Kate. Over lunch, Kate defends her choices while Michael probes why she insinuated herself into Lord Flanborough’s affairs, suspecting she copied sensitive documents. We’re introduced to Crime Street’s elite crooks, including Kate’s uncle, Colonel Westhanger, and the suave Gregori, as Kate coolly debates morality and outlines a far larger plan. Posing as a chorus girl, she charms wealthy innocent Reggie Boltover at Sebo’s until a vengeful ex-associate lunges at her—foiled by Michael. Soon after, Michael traces Kate’s calculated approach to Boltover’s business and lays a trap at his own flat, where Kate breaks in and the two face off, setting the stage for their duel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76212,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kate_Plus_Ten_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76212,908,'Reading ease score: 81.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76213,520,'Andrea del Sarto by Emil Schaeffer is an art-historical monograph written in the early 20th century. It examines the life, works, and influence of the Florentine painter Andrea del Sarto, weighing what biography can explain against what the paintings themselves reveal. The study blends narrative and formal analysis, discussing his training, key commissions, signature style, and his lasting impact on later Florentine art.  The opening of the monograph argues that artists are best understood through their works—yet makes an exception for Andrea, whose art and life are unusually entwined. It sketches his rise from a tailor’s son to a sought-after painter, his formative training with Piero di Cosimo and Michelangelo’s models, his early fresco cycles for the Annunziata and the Scalzo, and the fateful marriage to Lucrezia del Fede that, in Vasari’s telling, complicated his finances and choices. Schaeffer recounts Andrea’s celebrated invitation to the French court, his homesick return to Florence and misuse of royal funds, the plague retreat in Mugello, the San Salvi Last Supper spared during the siege, and his lonely death. The narrative then pivots to a concise critical portrait: Andrea’s mastery of fresco design, tonal harmony, and graceful drapery; his relative weakness at high drama; his engagement with Leonardo and Michelangelo; close readings of works like the Madonna delle Arpie, the Charitas, the Madonna del Sacco, and the St. John cycle; and a final note on his broad influence on later Florentines and even Baroque tendencies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76213,908,'Reading ease score: 57.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76213,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76213,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76213,661);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76214,520,'"Twenty-five years of the Philadelphia Orchestra, 1900-1925" by Frances Anne Wister is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It chronicles the founding and first quarter-century of the Philadelphia Orchestra, emphasizing its conductors, civic backers, and the organizational structures that sustained it. The narrative blends institutional history with the city’s broader musical heritage, documenting key concerts, campaigns, and milestones.  The opening of the book traces Philadelphia’s musical roots from colonial church music and the first public concerts through early teachers, instrument makers, and societies, notably the Musical Fund Society and the Academy of Music. It then pivots to the decisive turn of 1899–1900: the discovery of Fritz Scheel at Woodside Park, the Philippine benefit concerts that proved a professional orchestra’s viability, and the rapid move to a guaranty-backed series culminating in the first official concert. Early chapters profile Scheel’s background, discipline, and ear, the formation of the Philadelphia Orchestra Association under Alexander Van Rensselaer, and the ensemble’s immediate challenges—steep deficits, educational outreach like the 1903 Beethoven Cycle with lectures, and popular benefit programs. They culminate with the orchestra’s breakout moment hosting Richard Strauss (and succeeding in Boston under trying circumstances), signaling artistic ambition despite fragile finances. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76214,908,'Reading ease score: 62.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76214,677);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76214,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76214,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76215,520,'"Oriole''s daughter, a novel, Volume 1 (of 3)" by Jessie Fothergill is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in Rome’s expatriate circles, it follows Minna Hastings, a young English widow and sculptor, whose disrupted lodgings draw her into the raffish boarding-house Casa Dietrich and the orbit of its proud, learned, and impoverished “manager,” Signor Giuseppe Oriole. The story promises an intimate study of art, independence, class and national temperaments, and the uneasy pull between dignity and necessity in a city saturated with history.  The opening of the novel traces Minna’s background—widowed early, self-supporting, and settled in Rome—until her beloved landlady retires, forcing a move. After a rebuff at a respectable pensione, her cousin Hans leads her to Casa Dietrich, a decayed but lively boarding-house whose motley guests (Americans, English, Germans, and Italians) provide comic and telling contrasts. There Minna encounters Giuseppe Oriole: shabby yet magnetic, impulsive, erudite, and fiercely sensitive about his menial duties and Italy’s past, sparring over Nero and even desserts at table. She takes rooms temporarily, endures a string of awkward scenes (her arrival with luggage, a laundry dispute, a botched dinner service), visits a fashionable salon, and, amid amusement and irritation, finds herself increasingly aware of Giuseppe’s pride, knowledge, and hidden burdens. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76215,908,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76215,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76215,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76216,520,'From the Yalu to Port Arthur by Sir William Maxwell is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It presents a war correspondent’s first-hand chronicle of the Russo-Japanese War, tracing Japan’s campaign from the Yalu River through Manchuria to the surrender of Port Arthur, with close attention to commanders, planning, and logistics. Expect strategic analysis intertwined with vivid on-the-ground reporting, especially alongside General Kuroki’s First Army.  The opening of the work sets out Maxwell’s unique vantage (embedded with Kuroki from the Yalu to the Sha-ho and present at Port Arthur’s surrender), then recounts the diplomatic road to war: Korea’s fraught status, China’s waning suzerainty, Japan’s 1894–95 victory, Russia’s subsequent encroachments, and the missteps and delays that culminated in Japan’s decision to fight. He outlines Japanese intelligence estimates of Russian strengths and weaknesses (skeptical of Kuropatkin and the Cossacks, confident in breaking Russian morale), contrasts them with Russian misreadings of Japanese tactics, and sketches Japan’s leaders and campaign design. The narrative then moves to action: seizing Chemulpo and Seoul, the sinking of the Varyag, the rapid push on Pyng-yang and Anju, cautious advances under uncertain enemy intentions, and ingenious logistics—including covert coastal landings and road-building through morass to bring howitzers forward. Maxwell describes his rough journey north across filthy villages and flooded tracks, the bustling Japanese supply lines, and missionary outposts, before surveying the Yalu’s complex channels and islands that made a direct assault perilous. It culminates in a detailed account of the engineers’ night bridging and pontoon operations under fire—slipping field and heavy guns onto islands like Kontonto and Chonchagtai—successfully establishing a foothold for the coming battle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76216,908,'Reading ease score: 66.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76216,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76216,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76216,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76217,520,'"Eläinten olympialaiset ja muita satuja" by Kaarlo Hänninen is a collection of fairy tales written in the early 20th century. It follows a grand, humorous animal world that stages its own Olympic Games to keep up with humans, led by the Bear as forest king with the Fox and Wolf as organizers, and contestants arriving from every continent. Expect playful competitions, sly jokes, and a mix of nature lore and Finnish folklore as creatures race, leap, fly, and boast for glory.  The opening of the book sets the scene on a Lapland fell where the Bear convenes all animals and declares the Animal Olympics to counter human prowess. A committee (Bear, Wolf, Fox, and others, plus birds and even insects) designs events—running, wrestling, long and high jumping, flight contests, slow race, head-butting and pushing, and swimming—while elephants and beavers build tracks and the Fox invents quirky measures (distance by a cock’s step, time by a cuckoo’s call). Delegations travel to Petsamo by ingenious routes—whales ferry Austra­lians, herds stream across Asia and Africa under Tiger and Lion—then a grand reception unfolds; wrestling is postponed to avoid early quarrels. The first day brings a dramatic footrace won by a European greyhound ahead of a kangaroo and an ostrich, though the timing collapses in the excitement; a slow race crowns the snail. On the next day, amid Tapio’s forest-fairy fanfare, the flea crushes the long-jump, the condor wins the high-altitude flight, and the common swift takes the distance flight to the Heinäsaaret (with a comic albatross-and-tern incident), and the text moves toward the head-butting contests. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76217,908,'Reading ease score: 42.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76218,520,'"Vilhelm valloittaja : Kertomuksia Intiasta" by Rudyard Kipling is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The tales portray British India through vivid episodes of military life, frontier administration, and encounters between colonizers and indigenous peoples. Expect jungles, hill forts, superstition, and duty-bound protagonists moving through peril and ritual alongside local guides and tribes.  The opening of the collection centers on “Hänen kantaisänsä hauta,” following young John Chinn as he joins his father’s old Bhil regiment in Central India and is instantly recognized as the image—and heir—of his line. Through his bond with the veteran scout Bukta and the Bhil soldiers, Chinn proves himself in a bold, on-foot tiger hunt and learns the tribe’s lore, including a belief that his ancestor rides a spotted tiger as an omen. When unrest flares in the Satpura hills over a feared vaccination campaign, Chinn travels to his forebear’s flower-strewn grave, gathers the terrified Bhils, and uses calm authority and personal example to explain and begin the inoculations. The section sketches a world of inherited duty, mutual dependence, and the tension between modern governance and tribal belief. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76218,908,'Reading ease score: 42.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76218,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76218,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76218,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76218,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76219,520,'"Deductions from the World War" by Freytag-Loringhoven is a military treatise written in the early 20th century. It distills lessons from the Great War on strategy, leadership, national psychology, technology, and the political–economic foundations of power, arguing from a German general’s perspective for rigorous, future-oriented preparation. The work is analytical and unapologetically realist, aimed at officers and an informed public seeking to understand how states must organize for modern, total war.  The opening of the work introduces the author’s career and authority, explains the book’s intended German audience and restricted circulation, and frames its core claim that war is rooted in human nature. The foreword argues that even before the conflict ends, nation and army must reexamine policy, economics, and organization to draw practical conclusions. The first chapters survey the Central Powers’ unfavorable coalition position, the entente’s maritime and economic advantages, and the rise of world-economics and sea power as decisive factors; they also recount how occupations and Balkan campaigns pursued strategic and economic aims, and how a missed decisive victory early in the West lengthened the war. A chapter on mass psychology contrasts national armies and morale across France, Britain, Russia, and Austria-Hungary, attributing endurance and success chiefly to moral strength and discipline. The discussion of technology highlights railways, telegraphy, aircraft, heavy artillery, gas, and field fortification, arguing that fortified zones and elastic defense now shape operations more than old-style fortresses. The early section on leadership insists that, despite new weapons, decision still turns on command and will, weighing envelopment versus breakthrough, explaining entrenched warfare’s rise, and justifying selective withdrawals to stronger lines to conserve forces and economic assets. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76219,908,'Reading ease score: 51.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76219,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76219,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76219,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76220,520,'"Oriole''s daughter, a novel, Volume 2 (of 3)" by Jessie Fothergill is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in Rome, it centers on Minna Hastings, an independent sculptor who befriends the gentle Fulvia Dietrich as the girl is coerced by her calculating mother into marrying the vulgar, wealthy Marchmont. The story explores duty, money, and maternal power versus personal freedom, with the sad, steadfast Signor Giuseppe Oriole—Fulvia’s true father—standing as a figure of silent sacrifice. Minna’s attempts to save Fulvia drive a tense domestic drama of pride, love, and cultural clash.  The opening of this volume shows Minna offering Fulvia refuge in her studio, where she sculpts the girl’s likeness while Marchmont intrudes and Fulvia wilts under his attentions. Minna’s worldly friend Mrs. Charrington warns her to disengage, but Minna remains committed. As the wedding is rushed forward, Fulvia faints; Minna boldly offers to free her by supporting her for life, but Signora Dietrich counters with a sermon on filial obedience and reveals that Giuseppe Oriole is Fulvia’s father. Fulvia, torn yet resolute, chooses to marry Marchmont rather than abandon her mother. On the wedding day Minna spirits the shattered Giuseppe to Hadrian’s Villa; afterward he quits the house. Weeks later he reappears, broken and jobless, with the bitter news of an inheritance that arrived too late to save Fulvia, and Minna resolves to help him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76220,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76220,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76220,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76221,520,'De Paris à Pékin par terre: Sibérie-Mongolie by Victor Meignan is a travelogue written in the late 19th century. It traces an overland journey from France to Beijing via Russia, Siberia, Mongolia, and the Gobi Desert, mixing practical travel detail with reportage on places and people. Expect close observations on Siberian commerce, Russian society and bureaucracy, river-and-canal schemes versus railways, and the rigors of winter travel by sleigh.  The opening of the narrative sets out the author’s aim to correct Western clichés about Siberia, highlighting its industrial hubs (like Tomsk) and rich Transbaikal goldfields, and arguing that river steamers and canals, not railways, best suit the region’s trade. He then departs Paris, passes through gloomy Berlin, and endures a vexing Russian customs inspection before arriving in Saint Petersburg, where a moonlit Neva and Francophile salons contrast with his difficulty finding a companion. Securing official letters and postal privileges, he meets the border commissary Pfaffius—whose Bouriate servant pointedly invokes his rights as a subject—attends Glinka’s La vie pour le Tzar, and moves on to Moscow in severe cold to buy proper furs. In Moscow he surveys the Kremlin, notes the custom of uncovering before the Virgin at the Spassky Gate, sketches the Orthodox past, visits the fabulously wealthy Troitsa monastery, and finally finds a capable companion in the Siberian Constantine Kokcharof. The story then shifts to Nizhny Novgorod’s bustling bazaars and the logistics of sleigh travel: the hierarchy of travel permits (podarojnaia), the meticulous packing of the sled, the behavior of the fiery little horses, and the social life of post-stations. It closes this opening stretch with the first fast stages along the frozen Volga, a night of relay stops, and a tense, watery thaw on the ice before dawn breaks through thick fog. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76221,908,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76221,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76221,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76222,520,'The valley of eyes unseen by Gilbert Collins is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a lost-world adventure framed as a manuscript within a narrative, following Hugh Jevons, the scholar-adventurer Ronald Mirlees, and the commanding Saunders Philipson as they’re drawn into a perilous quest through China and toward Tibet. Secret societies, coded monastic lore, and hints of a hidden valley inhabited by a mysterious “ghost-faced” people and a river of diamonds set the tone.  The beginning of the story has Jevons in Peking learning of Mirlees’s sudden, inexplicable death in Shanghai, then receiving a sealed box of uncut diamonds and Mirlees’s warning manuscript. Switching to Mirlees’s own account, we meet him in Shanghai, where he intervenes in an opium den assault and rescues a disguised Saunders Philipson; a brutal fight and a night-time launch chase down the Whangpu and into the Yangtze follow as they flee a ruthless secret society linked to a Tibetan monastery. In Nanking, Philipson reveals a plan to find a hidden valley beyond the Tibetan ranges, guided by a cryptic inscription carved by a dying lama that speaks of “devils of ghostly face” and a “river of white gems,” and he invites Mirlees to join him. The section closes with the stakes rising further as Philipson realizes part of his maps were left behind, raising the question of a risky return to Shanghai. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76222,908,'Reading ease score: 76.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76222,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76222,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76222,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76222,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76223,520,'"When Oriole Traveled Westward" by Amy Bell Marlowe is a children''s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows spirited Oriole Putnam from a New England harbor toward the wide-open West as she bonds with a rancher’s twins, meets a troubled boy from Montana, and pursues the mystery of her missing parents. Expect family bonds, courage in sudden danger, and a journey that promises ranch-country adventures.  The opening of the novel finds Oriole skating across a frozen harbor with her twin charges when a racing iceboat forces them into the water; a stranger, Teddy Ford, dives in and saves them. Grateful yet wary, Teddy reveals he once worked for the twins’ father, rancher Harvey Langdon, who accused him of stealing family silver; at Oriole’s urging he resolves to return West and clear his name. Langdon retrieves the twins, appreciates the rescue, invites Oriole to visit the ranch, and prepares to head home with the children and their recovering nurse. Meanwhile, school-day tensions surface in a prank gone wrong when a neighbor boy’s ram smashes a sun-parlor window. Finally, sobering news arrives from a rescued sailor: Oriole’s father likely perished during the evacuation of the Helvetia, while her mother may have been picked up by a tramp ship, leaving hope—and questions—about her whereabouts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76223,908,'Reading ease score: 84.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76223,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76223,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76223,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76223,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76224,520,'"Introduction to the textual criticism of the Greek New Testament" by Eberhard Nestle is a scholarly handbook written in the early 20th century. It explains how the Greek New Testament text has been transmitted and assessed, surveying the history of printed editions alongside the evidence of manuscripts, ancient versions, and patristic quotations. The work aims to equip students and general readers with clear methods and an impartial, philological approach to evaluating readings.  The opening of the work presents an editor’s preface outlining Nestle’s linguistic expertise, broad contributions to biblical scholarship, and deliberate avoidance of theological bias, and notes that the English version is a corrected and expanded translation of a later German edition. A contents list and addenda signal the scope: the history of the printed text, the materials used for criticism, and the theory and practice of evaluating variants. Chapter I then sketches the development from the first printed Greek New Testament and the great Polyglots, through Erasmus, the verse-division of Robert Estienne, Beza, and the Elzevir “Textus Receptus,” to the major critical milestones of Mill, Bengel, Wettstein, Griesbach, Lachmann, Tischendorf, Tregelles, and Westcott and Hort, with notices of later editors and practical editions (including comparative and Catholic efforts). At the start of Chapter II, Nestle lays out the evidential base—no autographs survive, so scholars rely on Greek manuscripts, early translations, and patristic citations—and introduces the scale of the evidence and the basic distinction between uncial and cursive manuscripts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76224,908,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76224,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76224,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76225,520,'"L''île au trésor" by Robert Louis Stevenson is a novel written in the late 19th century. It tells a swashbuckling adventure in which young Jim Hawkins is swept from an English inn into a dangerous search for a hidden pirate hoard, with a feared one‑legged sailor looming over the quest. Expect sea voyages, mutiny, and moral tests as Jim comes of age amid rogues and treasure.  The beginning of the novel follows Jim at his parents’ inn, the Admiral Benbow, where a scarred old seaman, Billy Bones, takes lodging, drinks heavily, and pays Jim to watch for a one‑legged sailor. After a tense clash with Dr. Livesey and a violent visit from the pirate Chien-Noir, Billy suffers an apoplexy; then the blind Pew arrives and delivers the “black spot,” prompting Billy’s fatal collapse. Jim and his mother open Billy’s sea chest to claim unpaid dues, taking a sealed packet before a gang of pirates sacks the inn; revenue officers arrive, the pirates scatter, and Pew is accidentally trampled to death. Jim brings the packet to Dr. Livesey and Squire Trelawney, who recognize clues tied to the infamous pirate Flint and, on opening Billy’s effects, find a logbook and a sealed document that promise the lead to a great treasure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76225,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treasure_Island https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%27%C3%8Ele_au_tr%C3%A9sor',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76225,908,'Reading ease score: 80.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76225,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76225,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76225,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76225,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76225,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76226,520,'"Opin sauna" by Maila Talvio is a collection of stories written in the early 20th century. It likely weaves portraits of Finnish life—work, conscience, and community—using the sauna as a symbolic “school” of testing and renewal. The opening piece centers on the author Jaakko Tyrni, his self-willed daughter Ella, the irrepressible sauna-woman Annamar, and the ever-present friend Jouna as art, duty, and family ties pull at one another.  The opening of the collection follows Jaakko Tyrni on a glittering winter morning as he revels in the prospect of paying off his last debt, dreams of writing freely, and debates genius, poverty, and the discipline of work. He sketches possible books, clings to the power of a good title, and warms to a bright, maternal figure for a future novel, while everyday life presses in: Christmas shopping lists, the beloved Annamar stoking the “learning” sauna, and the plan to meet his friend Jouna. A sleigh ride with Ella exposes their strained bond—he seizes the reins, she bolts in hurt pride, then returns—while memories of his great love Ellida and anxious thoughts about Ella’s solitude color his interior monologue. The scene widens to lively winter vignettes—birds, dogs, villagers, and hints of bootleg merriment—as he drifts between observation and invention on the way to town. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76226,908,'Reading ease score: 53.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76226,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76227,520,'"Kassan avain :  Ilveilys yhdessä näytöksessä by Roderich Benedix" is a one‑act farce written in the mid‑ to late 19th century. The play centers on a young marriage tested by money troubles, secrecy, and social expectations, exploring themes of trust, authority in the household, and the balance between propriety and adult freedom.  Adolf staggers in after a late night, hungover and panicked: he has lost money at cards and owes 120 thalers to a pushy ex‑captain who threatens public exposure if not paid by noon. The cashbox key is with his wife, Leopoldine, so he fumbles for excuses to get it while she grows suspicious—especially after discovering a hidden jewelry case she fears is meant for a secret lover. Their maid, Katri, bluntly criticizes the household for treating Adolf like a boy, stoking Leopoldine’s doubts. Pressed by time, Adolf finally admits the gambling loss; Leopoldine promptly gives him the key so he can pay, and he sends the money. He then reveals the hidden case holds a bracelet meant as her upcoming birthday gift, moving her to tears and dissolving her suspicions. Reconciled, Leopoldine declares him master of the house, hands him the cashbox key for good, and encourages a healthier, more adult balance in their life together; Katri, relieved, decides to stay. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76227,908,'Reading ease score: 62.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76227,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76227,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76227,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76228,520,'"Essays, or discourses, vol. 3 (of 4) :  Selected from the works of Feyjoo, and…." by Feyjoo is a collection of essays written in the late 18th century. This volume turns a sharp, skeptical eye on how history is written, weighing style against substance and probing the biases that distort the record. Its likely focus is on the art and ethics of historiography—how truth is pursued, how it goes astray, and how celebrated anecdotes harden into “common errors.”  At the start of this volume, the essayist argues that an excellent historian is rarer than a great poet, then surveys the celebrated ancients to show how even the best—Herodotus, Xenophon, Livy, Sallust, Tacitus—have been faulted for order, invention, speeches, and bias. He uses Quintus Curtius (as dismantled by Le Clerc) to illustrate how admired histories can be riddled with errors, then details the perils of style (affectation, false sublimity, uneven elevation), the difficulty of selecting essentials without confusion, and the constant tug‑of‑war between chronology and clear narrative. The core problem is truth: proximity to power, national and religious partisanship, hope and fear, personal grudges, and the temptation to embellish or to please the reader all warp accounts; forged chronicles and thin reading compound the damage. The essay closes the opening with a rapid catalogue of “popular errors” and doubtful tales—Helen never at Troy, Virgil’s Dido anachronism, the Cretan labyrinth likely a myth, Archimedes’ and Proclus’s burning mirrors unattested by reliable sources, French royal legends (Pharamond, Salic Law, holy oil and fleurs‑de‑lis) questioned, Belisarius’s beggary likely apocryphal, and Joan of Arc’s “inspiration” reframed as political stagecraft—modeling how to sift famous stories with critical restraint. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76228,908,'Reading ease score: 45.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76229,520,'"Essays, or discourses, vol. 4 (of 4) :  Selected from the works of Feyjoo, and…." by Feyjoo is a collection of philosophical essays written in the late 18th century. The volume gathers short, argumentative pieces on natural philosophy, epistemology, and morals that challenge inherited Aristotelian doctrine and promote cautious, experiment‑based reasoning. Expect lively “paradoxes” that overturn common opinions about fire, air, water, and qualities, alongside reflections on the limits of human knowledge and the pretensions of learned display. It will appeal to readers of Enlightenment thought, history of science, and skeptical philosophy.  The opening of the volume presents a table of contents and then launches into “Physical Paradoxes,” where the author argues from experiments that solar heat concentrated by burning‑glasses surpasses elemental fire, that air is naturally cold absent the sun’s influence, and that water tends toward solidity, not fluidity. He contends that so‑called “occult qualities” are no more obscure than familiar ones (magnetism versus heat), that united forces are not always stronger (citing thread and rope tests), and that variations in sunlight and warmth stem partly from sunspots; he explains why a burning‑glass works better in cold and why a flame’s cone is a forced shape due to air pressure. He then claims metals reside in plants (magnetic particles in ashes, “metallic vegetation,” and a bold conjecture linking the earth’s magnetism to ubiquitous iron), before beginning “On Sceptical Philosophy,” distinguishing prudent from extreme doubt, reappraising ancient skeptics, and defending a practical trust in “experimental” evidence against dream and delusion arguments. This opening culminates in the thesis that natural philosophy yields probability rather than demonstration, illustrating the point by showing how uncertain our definitions of species, genera, and even “man as a rational animal” remain, with doubts extending to animals’ sensation and plants’ sensitivity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76229,908,'Reading ease score: 34.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76230,520,'Ooperin Epo by Viktor Ahlqvist is a novel written in the early 20th century. It’s a comic picaresque and social satire centered on the famed beggar Efraim “Ooperin Epo” Lehtinen in the broad parish of Moromäki, charting his schemes, friendships, and skirmishes with local authority and manners. His loud, showy friend Vistin Ville, stern clergy and officials, and women like Anna-Liisa and the bright Aina Alinen shape his fortunes. Expect earthy humor, rural color, and pointed jabs at petty power.  The opening of the novel frames the tale through a narrator who settles in Moromäki, works for (and marries) the widow Partasuu, then introduces the parish’s marvel: the cunning beggar Epo. We get Epo’s origins in a poor hut, his inherited trade, his reputation, and a sweeping, humorous panorama of Moromäki’s rapakivi fields, forests, lakes, and legends, including a fabulous giant fish he supposedly shot. School and church episodes lampoon village pedagogy and clergy, while quick comic scenes with the doctor and apothecary set the tone. Vistin Ville—a globe-trotting singer and braggart—enters as Epo’s ally and foil, his household a shabby “hotel,” his side hustle as an “advocate” feeding into a farcical paternity suit where, coached by Ville, Epo dodges child support. The narrator notes the bitter outcome for Anna-Liisa and the child even as Epo’s local fame rises. Epo’s seasonal grain “collections” meet the new rationing regime, he hides and sells grain on the sly, gets raided, loses his ration card, and in despair stages a botched suicide before Ville cuts him down. He then drafts a pleading letter to the governor, is comforted by Aina over coffee, and, buoyed by her practical advice and affection, dreams of climbing to local power. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76230,908,'Reading ease score: 46.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76230,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76230,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76231,520,'"Ikuiset uhritulet" by Lauri Luoto is a political-historical novel written in the early 20th century. The work condemns war and bourgeois domination while tracing Finland’s class struggle from medieval Pirkkala myths to the Red stronghold of Tampere in 1918. It centers on ordinary people and rank‑and‑file Reds—such as Nestori Norola and Olli—enduring grief, resolve, and hard choices amid a swelling tragedy.  The opening of the book unfolds as a fiery, lyrical denunciation of war and the White terror, questioning the worth of “civilization,” religion, and culture when graves are desecrated and the poor are hunted. It shifts into a legend-like episode from medieval Pirkkala, where the noita Poukka and his kin resist church power, briefly seize the Kivikirkko, and are crushed by outside force—an origin tale for long-running oppression. The narrative then leaps to modern Tampere: smokestacks stilled, a vast Red funeral procession to Pyynikki, refugees streaming in, and exhausted units from the Vilppula front regrouping as Norola and Olli seek scattered comrades. The city braces for encirclement, morale wavers, civilians and women remain largely un-mobilized, and the section closes with White forces pressing in and preparing bold assaults around late March. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76231,908,'Reading ease score: 46.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76231,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76231,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76232,520,'"Abbey :  or, Taking it easy by Lucy Ellen Guernsey" is a didactic domestic fiction (a Sunday‑school tale) written in the late 19th century. It follows a heedless young servant whose motto of “taking it easy” clashes with households that expect diligence and Christian accountability, offering a moral contrast between careless indolence and conscientious work.  The story tracks Abbey Jenkins as she blunders through Mrs. Ward’s home—burning a new green pail, staining a fresh ceiling, and ruining an heirloom cloth—then receives a pointed lesson on the sin of omission from Matthew 25. Hoping to reform her, Mrs. Powell swaps her own capable maid for Abbey and imposes strict, fair training, but Abbey resists discipline, oversleeps, and sulks. At home, industrious sister Elvira thrives in service, their disabled brother Harry earns by fine handwork, and little Totty declines after a fall traced to Abbey’s carelessness. Left alone one afternoon, Abbey hastens a reluctant fire by pouring kerosene on kindling; the can explodes, destroying the kitchen, birds, and garden. Dismissed, she remains self‑pitying while Elvira, Harry, and even Totty contribute; the narrator closes with a warning that “not meaning any harm” is no excuse, and that wasted talents and shirked duties burden others and dishonour God. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76232,908,'Reading ease score: 90.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76232,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76232,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76232,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76232,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76233,520,'"Waiting for Sailing Orders: Fisher-Life at the Land''s End" by Mrs. George Gladstone is a Christian juvenile story written in the late 19th century. Set among Cornish fishers at Newlyn, it follows the devout Trevan family—father John, mother Philippa, their twin daughters Dorothy and Judith, and venerable Captain Nance—as work, weather, and faith shape their days while they yearn for the return of a long-lost prodigal son, Willy. The narrative blends local seafaring life with moral reflection and Scripture, using “sailing orders” as a tender metaphor for death and readiness to meet God.  The opening of the tale introduces bustling mackerel fishing in Mount’s Bay, the respected skipper John Trevan and his crew, and the homelife anchored by Philippa and her Bible-loving father, Captain Nance. We learn the family’s “great sorrow”: Willy, once wayward, ran off years earlier after stealing from his mother, leaving them to pray and hope. Amid twin birthday celebrations, the old sailor recounts sons lost at sea, and the family visit Land’s End, sing Wesley’s hymn, and hear lighthouse lore and giant legends. Further excursions to St. Michael’s Mount bring stories of St. Michael’s chair, “Jack the Giant-killer,” and Judith’s retelling of David and Goliath, sharpening the book’s moral and scriptural tone. Dorothy strives to master her temper and studies, the girls comfort their mother on Willy’s birthday with prayer on Paul Hill, and village life unfolds through Midsummer Eve bonfires and a trip to the Logan Rock, where a local recounts how it was toppled and reset—rich scene-setting that frames the family’s faith, work, and waiting. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76233,908,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76233,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76233,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76233,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76234,520,'"Texel" by Jac. P. Thijsse is an illustrated nature guide and travelogue written in the early 20th century. It presents the Dutch island of Texel through vivid field observations, gentle memoir, and suggested routes, with a strong emphasis on birdlife, dunes, polders, and changing landscapes. The work blends natural history with local customs and an early conservation ethos, inviting readers to explore the island’s flora, fauna, and seascapes.  The opening of the book sets Texel alongside Europe’s great “playgrounds,” then recalls the author’s arrival in the 1890s as a young schoolmaster, his swift attachment to the island, and a two‑day walk around its entire coast. He sketches the terrain—tuunwallen, stolp farmsteads, dunes, beaches, slufters, and polders—while noting memorable encounters with shorebirds and seabirds, and the island culture of egg-finding, skating, and polsstok jumping. Subsequent pages turn to inland discoveries: small alder groves and rich dune valleys like the Fonteinsnol and the Mient, once brimming with gentians, orchids, and marsh birds, and later altered by drainage and afforestation. The narrative then shifts into a guide-like excursion with a school group: the ferry crossing, porpoises in the Texelstroom, cycling via De Waal through the polder Waal en Burg to De Koog, watching avocets, godwits, lapwings, and wildflowers, and visiting the guarded gull and tern colony at De Staart (including a freshly hatching chick and a swimming lapwing chick). At the start of the next chapter, the party rides toward Oosterend and the polder Het Noorden, where the author contrasts the former overwhelming bird abundance with the still-notable “Bol,” before pausing on the Waddenzeedijk to peer into the sluice waters and glimpse marine life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76234,908,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76234,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76234,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76235,520,'"Az egri csillagok (I. kötet) : Bornemissza Gergely élete" by Géza Gárdonyi is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set amid the 16th‑century Ottoman pressure on Hungary, it follows the boy Gergely Bornemissza, his friend Éva Cecey, and the soldier Dobó István as their fates entwine with raids, captivity, and local resistance. Expect village life under siege, narrow escapes, and the first stirrings of the larger struggle that will center on Eger.  The opening of the novel introduces two children, Gergő and Éva, who are seized by a one‑eyed janissary’s raiding party while playing by a forest stream. In Cecey Péter’s household we meet Dobó István, fresh from destroying Móré’s stronghold, and hear heated talk of rival kings and the Turkish menace. Among the prisoners the children witness a grim camp, a forced march, and a night by the fire where a scarred man (linked to Móré) bargains with the janissary to lead him to Cecey’s supposed treasure. At night Gergő slips free with Éva, steals back a gray horse (and the tethered Turkish pony), and rides home; the village rejoices, and his warning alerts Cecey and Dobó to an imminent raid. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76235,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eclipse_of_the_Crescent_Moon https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egri_csillagok',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76235,908,'Reading ease score: 79.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76235,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76235,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76235,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76236,520,'"Az egri csillagok (II. kötet) :  Bornemissza Gergely élete" by Géza Gárdonyi is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set amid the mid-16th-century Ottoman wars in Hungary, it focuses on the defense of Eger and the life and deeds of the inventive soldier Bornemissza Gergely. Alongside the siege story, it weaves family stakes and intrigue involving Gergely’s wife Éva, their son Jancsi, and the steadfast captain Dobó István.  The opening of this volume moves from a brief year-by-year recap of the troubled 1540s to 1552, then shifts to Sopron, where Éva—preparing clothes for a visiting student—finds a hidden plan of Eger in Gergely’s old vest. A one‑eyed visitor, Balogh Tamás, shows ominous interest in Gergely’s talismanic ring and ingratiates himself with young Jancsi; soon after, as news arrives that Szolnok has fallen, the boy vanishes from the church, and Éva fears the kidnapper is the old foe Jumurdsák. The narrative then cuts to Gergely leading 250 men toward Eger: he shames retreating soldiers, recruits the crafty gypsy Sárközi, and reaches the fortress to a warm welcome from Captain Dobó and the officers. A brisk tour maps Eger’s defenses—gates, bastions, the Sötétkapu, outer works, and extensive powder stores—while Gergely is placed on the eastern front and proposes improved “seeded” bombs. Preparations intensify; a scout gallops in with a severed Turkish head, Achmed Pasha’s surrender demand is read to the garrison, and Dobó tears it up, resolving to hold the castle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76236,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eclipse_of_the_Crescent_Moon https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egri_csillagok',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76236,908,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76236,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76236,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76236,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76237,520,'"Junalla kulkiessa by Maria Ramstedt" is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. Conceived as brief, readable pieces for railway journeys, it paints intimate scenes of Finnish life and nature across the seasons, reflecting on love, loss, faith, and everyday decency.  The book gathers five vignettes: a lyrical tale of wagtails in Komendantinpuisto where a sudden cold snap turns spring joy into grief; a two-part marital sketch, Ensimmäinen hallayö, showing a newlywed quarrel and its tender reconciliation from both spouses’ viewpoints; Kun jäät lähtevät, in which a bedridden soul hopes to recover with the spring thaw but finds peace only in death; Muistelma, a quiet birthday evening between a daughter and her widowed father, mixing memory, pastoral care, and sober talk about marriage with the homely bustle of visiting relatives; and Kalastaja, a New Year’s Eve portrait of a fisherman and his son braving a brutal storm, returning with modest catch, choosing honesty over profit, and ending the day in humble gratitude. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76237,908,'Reading ease score: 44.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76237,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76238,520,'Kelet nagy gondolkodói by János Mester is a scholarly study of Eastern philosophy written in the early 20th century. Centered on how potent ideas shape individuals and nations, it defends the serious study of Asian thought and begins by mapping Indian traditions from the Vedas to the Upanishads, with special attention to ritual versus inner knowledge and the concepts of brahman and atman. The work promises a wide, historically grounded survey of major Eastern thinkers and systems.  The opening of the work argues that books and ideas govern both public morals and personal character more powerfully than sensational literature, and it urges readers to seek ideas at their sources. It rebuts the notion that the East has only religion and no philosophy, calls for a synthesis that respects culture and epoch but emphasizes great individuals, and outlines the factors shaping the history of philosophy (universal human problems, cultural context, and personal genius). It then sketches the “Indian soul” as yearning for unity and inner peace, inclined to mystic contemplation, often passive and pessimistic, yet sustained by karma and rebirth. From there it introduces the Vedas: the four collections and their priestly functions; the layers (Samhita, Brahmana, Upanishad, Sutra); and the split between outward ritual law (dharma) and inward wisdom (brahman). A brief survey of the Rigveda traces a movement from high monotheistic tones (Varuna) to polytheism and henotheism (Indra), early doubts, and an initial heaven–hell scheme later giving way to transmigration. The section closes by developing the Brahmana and Upanishadic turn to brahman (the absolute and the sacred word) and atman (the self), their identification in the vedanta (“tat tvam asi”), and the four states of consciousness culminating in the ecstatic union. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76238,908,'Reading ease score: 63.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76238,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76238,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76239,520,'"Handfertigkeitsbuch für junge Mädchen : Eine Anleitung für geschickte…." by Else Pauli is a handicraft guidebook written in the early 20th century. It offers young girls practical, taste-conscious instructions for weaving, embroidery, crochet, painting on fabrics, wood and ceramics, papercraft, simple carpentry, and making toys and useful gifts. The emphasis is on good materials, modern design, and avoiding outdated kitsch, with clear tips, patterns, and many illustrations.  The opening of this guide sets the tone with a friendly foreword: the editor shares a childhood misadventure with “oil painting,” then explains her aim to inspire rather than lecture, urging readers to choose good tools, work simply and tastefully, and prefer practical, well-made items. It then launches into projects and advice: making a masquerade mask from silk with reinforced edges; simple bead and wool weaving on a cigar‑box loom for straps, belts, and trims with careful color guidance; bold, modern embroidery projects (a cushion, coffee cozy, work pouches) and principles for stylized ornament on garments, illustrated by a red jacket with restrained motifs. Next come cross‑stitch borders and fillings with suggested palettes and uses, guidance on monograms for linens and accessories, and a range of crochet pieces (stars, edgings, a child’s purse and bath mats, a green‑and‑white child’s dress with row instructions) plus crocheted wool flowers. The section closes by teaching stylized artificial flowers in silk and wool built on wire frames, and introduces tea‑doll cozies—explaining their construction (frame, padding, lining, underskirt, attached torso) and historical dress examples—before breaking off mid‑description. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76239,908,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76239,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76239,680);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76239,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76240,520,'"Die Kauzburg : Roman aus dem Tagebuch eines Freundes" by Hans Kaboth is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on a forester who takes up residence in an ancient order-castle turned Forsthaus and records his experiences in a lyrical, introspective diary. The story blends nature-romance, superstition, and a resurfacing pagan past with the narrator’s unsettling fascination for a red‑haired young woman named Marianne, while a strict housekeeper and local clergy frame the Christian order he is beginning to disrupt.  The opening of the novel follows the forester’s arrival in a small river town and his move into the looming stone “Kauzburg,” whose nocturnal beauty and rumored hauntings unsettle and enchant him. He hires Marianne, a striking “child of the street,” and is quickly captivated; a fishing outing and moonlit walk intensify the charged, ambiguous bond between them. During a violent storm he searches for her, only to discover in the cellar a lightning‑revealed underpass and a carved owl over a kneeling figure, hinting at a buried pagan cult; in the darkness she embraces and bites him, then reappears demurely as if nothing happened. A solemn Catholic procession the next day casts Marianne as a Madonna‑like bearer of a wax child, sharpening the novel’s tension between pagan and Christian images. Alone, the narrator explores the tunnel, emerging into a hidden, untouched valley strewn with marked stones like an old altar site, where a soft, human sigh suggests new mysteries as the opening ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76240,908,'Reading ease score: 83.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76240,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76240,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76241,520,'"Kakemono : Japanese sketches" by A. Herbage Edwards is a collection of travel sketches and cultural essays written in the early 20th century. The work surveys Japan’s religious life, art, landscape, and customs through lyrical description, on-the-ground observation, and folklore retellings. It moves from temples and shrines to street fairs and sacred mountains, balancing reverence with occasional critique. A recurring thread is the encounter with Buddhist and Shintō belief—culminating in a pilgrimage toward Mount Fuji.  The opening of the book moves through a series of vivid scenes: a contemplative portrait of the Great Buddha; the austere sanctity of the Ise shrines; the sumptuous artistry of Nikkō’s mausoleum; and the bustling, commercialized devotion at Asakusa’s Kannon. It contrasts the serene altar-garden of Rinzaki with a compassionate episode at Ikkegami, where villagers honor foreign sailors, then tells the legend of a missionary child who damages a Jizō statue. The narrative lingers over Shiba’s ornate tomb-temples and the restrained dignity of the Hongwanji, counters it with a sharp sketch of Nichiren worship’s noisy zeal, and offers a universalist moment in a Shintō rite above the sea. Further scenes depict fox-god superstition at Inari, a communal fire-walking ceremony in Tokyo, and a meditation on the “smiling” Buddhas of Nikkō. It then turns to Mount Fuji: a poetic prologue on its presence and a grounded travel account—tram and horse to Subashiri, mist-bound ascent past tea-house stations and lava beds, purchase of pilgrim staves, and a first night’s halt at the second station. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76241,908,'Reading ease score: 74.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76242,520,'"The beloved of Hathor, and The shrine of the Golden Hawk by Farr and Shakespear" is a pair of ritualistic verse dramas written around the turn of the 20th century. The book stages mythic tales set in ancient Egypt, blending temple ceremony, magic, and political destiny to explore the tension between worldly power and spiritual illumination.  In The Beloved of Hathor, the high priestess Ranoutet prepares the warrior Aahmes—victor over the Hyksos—to receive the goddess’s mysteries if he can withstand a final temptation. Nouferou, a nobleman’s rebellious daughter with a wanderer’s blood, enchants and seduces him on the eve of battle, and though Aahmes wins military glory, he fails the spiritual trial; Ranoutet declares he will rule Egypt but be shut out from the sanctuary. In The Shrine of the Golden Hawk, the fire-magician Gebuel completes a talisman of Heru to challenge King Zozer, but Zozer’s daughter Nectoris arrives, guided by her Ka, to claim the Hawk for Egypt. Defying Gebuel’s warnings, she enters the blazing shrine, unites with the god, and emerges bearing the amulet unharmed. She commands Gebuel to bring the shrine to Egypt, and he yields; the play closes with her triumph as the chosen bearer of Heru’s power. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76242,908,'Reading ease score: 83.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76243,520,'"Æsop''s fables in words of one syllable" by Lucy Aikin and Aesop is a collection of fables written in the late 19th century. It presents classic Aesopian animal tales retold in simple, one-syllable prose for young or early readers, each closing with a clear moral. Expect brisk scenes featuring foxes, wolves, crows, dogs, and children that illustrate prudence, humility, and common sense.  The opening of the collection strings together many very short animal parables, each told in plain words and capped with a maxim. Early pieces include the Boy and the Wolf (lying destroys trust), Boys and Frogs (your sport may be another’s harm), the Fox and the Grapes (sour-grapes self-justification), the Mice, the Cat, and the Bell (plans are easier than deeds), the Wolf and the Lamb (might over right), Stone Broth (ingenuity and persistence), and the Man, His Son, and His Ass (you cannot please all). Other quick hits stress valuing use over show (the Cock and the Gem, the Stag in the Lake), choosing freedom over gilded chains (the Wolf and the House Dog), and favoring gentle means (the Wind and the Sun) while warning against greed (the Goose with the Gold Egg) and flattery (the Fox and the Crow). This rapid sequence continues through many familiar fables and concludes in the excerpt as a cat flatters an old hawk to gain entry, signaling yet another lesson in slyness and trust. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
None
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76244,520,'"Three years in California [1851-54]" by John David Borthwick is a historical travel memoir written in the mid-19th century. It follows the author’s journey to and through Gold Rush California, from the Panama route and San Francisco’s boomtown waterfront to the mining districts. Blending firsthand adventure with keen social observation, it sketches the rough travel, diverse peoples, exuberant commerce, and omnipresent gambling that shaped the era.  The opening of the narrative charts the height of California fever, the author’s cramped and stormy passage to Chagres, and a perilous push up the Chagres River—night in a rain-soaked boat, wretched stops at jungle huts, and a brutal slog over the Isthmus to Panama. Borthwick’s Panama scenes mix festival pageantry with dilapidated churches, filthy streets, quack cures, widespread sickness, and hard-hearted indifference to the ill; he notes Americans crowding hotels, gambling, and marking the Fourth of July in noisy style. After an injury delay, he sails on a poorly provisioned barque where fever spreads, an incompetent “doctor” blunders, two passengers die (one from terror as much as disease), and the living subsist on salt pork, musty flour, and the odd porpoise before reaching San Francisco. The San Francisco chapters vividly survey a city exploding over bay fill and sandy hills, with ships turned into buildings, rents high, people sleeping in offices, and French bootblacks thriving; markets brim with game and salmon, and restaurants dazzle amid gaudy hotels. Street life is frantic—auctions, brass bands, riverboat touts, greenhorns, Chinese work parties, mud, rats, fleas—and the gambling saloons dominate: glittering rooms, monte and faro tables, disciplined dealers, and elaborate bars serving rapid-fire American “drinks.” This section closes by noting a sharp scarcity of labor and sky‑high wages, setting the stage for work and wealth in the mines. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76244,908,'Reading ease score: 54.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76244,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76244,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76244,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76245,520,'"Arkham House :  The first 20 years; 1939-1959 by August Derleth" is a publishing history and annotated bibliography written in the mid-20th century. The book traces the origins and development of Arkham House and its role in preserving and promoting weird fiction, especially the legacy of H. P. Lovecraft.  The narrative begins with Lovecraft’s death inspiring the decision to collect and publish his work after mainstream publishers declined, leading to the founding of Arkham House, early financing by advance orders and personal funds, and the slow but decisive success of the inaugural omnibus. It then charts the press’s expansion into macabre, fantasy, and science fiction, the creation of allied imprints for detective pastiches and other specialties, the import of key British authors, and the practical lessons learned about print runs, pricing, design, and production. It records wartime constraints, a postwar surge followed by market saturation and rising costs, the shift from direct mail to trade distribution, attempts like The Arkham Sampler and joint ventures, as well as cancellations and titles released elsewhere. The heart of the book is a meticulous bibliography detailing each title’s contents, pricing, and print run, plus addenda noting non-house items the press stocked and a roster of out-of-print titles at the close of the covered period. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76245,908,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76245,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76245,698);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76245,697);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76246,520,'"Kristiina kuningatar :  Vuosisatansa merkillisin nainen" by Adolf Borstendörfer is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. It dramatizes the life of Sweden’s Queen Christina, tracing her resolve to abdicate, her intellectual and spiritual restlessness, her conversion to Catholicism, and the intrigues and romances that follow her across European courts.  The opening of the book moves from Uppsala’s court to grand public spectacle and then into continental intrigue. Chancellor Schering Rosenhane informs Dowager Queen Maria Eleonora that Christina intends to abdicate, while an alternative suitor (Count Tott) is floated to block her plan; Christina confides instead in Magnus Gabriel de la Gardie that she will renounce the crown and faith and depart. We witness her formal abdication before the estates at Uppsala, a secret, tender farewell with Magnus, and then her entry into Brussels, where Jesuits and Spanish grandees celebrate her reception and a charismatic Italian, Count Sentinelli—armed with a papal recommendation—wins her favor, provoking Magnus’s jealous alarm. Parallel scenes introduce a clandestine illuminati-like society that condemns Christina to death and, in Innsbruck, a petty official stirs anti-royal sentiment while conspirators prepare to strike, as Christina reads a troubled letter from her old tutor warning of mounting hostility. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76246,908,'Reading ease score: 34.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76246,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76246,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76247,520,'"How joy was found" by Isobel Wylie Hutchison is an allegorical fantasy play written in the early 20th century. Drawing on a Scottish folk-tale, it personifies inner qualities—Humanity, Duty, Obedience, Constancy, Faith, Love, Hope, and Truth—guided by a radiant “Big Young Hero,” in a spiritual quest to protect a child and recover Joy. The focus is a pilgrimage of faith and perception, with Finn (Humanity) learning to trust the vision and aid of his companions.  The opening of the work sets its mythic frame on a paradisal isle where the Big Young Hero welcomes the Climber (Faith) and summons shadow-figures who become Finn’s helpers: the Carpenter (Duty), Tracker (Obedience), Gripper (Constancy), Thief (Love), Listener (Hope), and Marksman (Truth). In Argyll, the Hero binds Finn to keep His children, and Finn assembles this company, launching in a magic boat. They reach the Earth-Mother’s house, where a midnight Hand steals a baby after Finn dozes and blames others; the party splits, a storm nearly wrecks the boat, and a life-line cast by Faith brings rescue and steadies the helm. The action moves to the Giant’s eel-thatched castle: Faith opens a hidden brow-door by prayer and descends with Love to recover the child (and a puppy), but the Hand seizes her; Finn, chastened, admits his lies to Truth and follows her inside, as Faith confesses her own errors—the narrative breaking off at this crisis. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76247,908,'Reading ease score: 93.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76248,520,'"La reina del cor :  Comedia lírica en un acte by Ignasi Iglesias" is a one-act lyric comedy (stage play with songs) written in the early 20th century. Set in a rural Catalan inn on Saint Anthony Abbot’s day, it blends music, festivity, and romantic intrigue; the likely topic is a simple love story unfolding amid a carters’ celebration.  The play follows Reina, a virtuous young maid, and Tralla, a frank, big-hearted widowed carter who adores her and dreams of giving her a home and a daughter to love. Paula, the bustling innkeeper, nudges Reina to accept him, and Reina finally admits she has loved Tralla all along. As the village revels in the Tres Toms—drinking, joking, and preparing for the evening dance—Ramonet, Paula’s son and a local favorite, realizes too late that he also loves Reina. Tralla publicly declares his intentions, warns Ramonet to show respect, and sets off to fetch the marriage papers. The comic bustle of Milhomes and the other carters, the musicians’ lively tunes, and the promise of the ball frame the happy resolution: Reina joyfully waves her kerchief to Tralla as he departs, sealing a straightforward, affectionate union in the midst of communal merriment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76248,908,'Reading ease score: 80.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76248,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76248,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76249,520,'"La souris japonaise :  roman" by Rachilde is a novel written in the early 20th century. It presents a first-person confession by a young bourgeois man, Henri, who frames an eventual “crime” as a moral act while recounting his formation between an exalted, chaste bond with his Jesuit tutor, Abbé Armand de Sembleuse, and a clandestine, troubling entanglement with his cousin, Lucienne Morin. The story probes desire, purity, and bourgeois hypocrisy through a psychological lens.  The opening of the novel finds Henri addressing his lawyer, insisting his “crime” is a useful, logical outcome of his life, then retracing his upbringing: distant, respectable parents; a corrosive household atmosphere; and the arrival of the elegant Abbé Armand as preceptor. As Lucienne imposes herself on him, Armand disapproves and gradually binds Henri to a demanding ideal of purity; their intense, platonic attachment culminates in an Italian journey that heightens both devotion and perilous jealousy. Back home, amid a provincial ball and family expectations of marriage, Henri grows more alienated; ill health follows, and his parents push for a prudent future. The section ends with a confrontation in which Henri’s father announces Lucienne’s pregnancy and implies Henri is responsible, while Henri flatly denies it, invoking what Armand knows of the truth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76249,908,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76249,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76249,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76250,520,'"On the borders of pigmy land" by Ruth B. Fisher is a missionary travel memoir written in the early 20th century. It follows a Church Missionary Society worker’s journeys through British East Africa and Uganda, blending vivid travel narrative with portraits of local peoples, landscapes, and emerging Christian communities. Expect accounts of royal courts and village life, hard overland travel, and the spiritual aims and practical trials of mission work on the edge of so‑called “Pigmy” country.  The opening of this memoir traces the author’s 1900 arrival at Mombasa, a brief stay at Freretown, and an arduous run up the Uganda Railway—heat, dust, and famine along the line—into the highlands and a flooded railhead where camps are raised in storms. It then follows her first caravan march by bicycle through Masai country, mishaps that leave the party divided and camping rough, a dhow crossing of Lake Victoria after a steamer wreck, and landfall near Mengo with a jubilant welcome and glimpses of thriving church life, the hospital, and the child-king’s court. Chosen to help pioneer work in Toro, she treks over swamps and ridges; illness forces companions to turn back, but she and Miss Pike press on, observe village customs (including a comic wedding), and reach Kabarole to an overwhelming reception. The opening also sketches Toro’s setting—crater lakes, the snows of Ruwenzori, violent storms, lightning fires, and abundant wildlife—and closes with the bare-bones start to home life: a mud-and-thatch house furnished from packing cases, spoiled supplies, and reliance on garden produce and stores. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76250,908,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76250,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76250,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76250,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76250,644);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58363,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruth_Alice_Fisher');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76251,520,'"Aviovaimo : Romaani" by Anna Baadsgaard is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a psychological domestic drama about a marriage under strain, set against a seaside retreat and a fateful holiday. The story follows eminent surgeon Professor Ove Krohn, his anxious, devoted wife Margareta, and their grown children Ellen and Arne, whose encounters with aspiring singer Maud Atkinson and Swedish medical student Yngve Alvén stir desire, pride, and clashing views of modern love and gender roles.  The beginning of the novel opens with a rainy-night departure by ship, where spirited Ellen thrills at the journey while her mother frets over Ove’s frayed nerves; in their cabin, Ove brusquely rejects then briefly softens toward his wife. Onboard, Ellen meets and warms to the courteous Yngve Alvén, and morning brings a radiant sea and a sense of promise. At the resort hotel, genteel guests gossip as Maud Atkinson and her flamboyant mother arrive; Maud’s sultry song captivates the room—and especially Ove—while Margareta withdraws in hurt silence. Soon after, Arne daydreams on the heath; Maud joins him, hints at a hard past, deflects his shy confession, and their walk ends under Ove’s cold, controlling gaze, signaling the emotional tensions to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76251,908,'Reading ease score: 42.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76251,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76251,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76252,520,'"Jupe courte" by Catulle Mendès is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. It playfully satirizes Parisian manners, desire, jealousy, and shifting notions of modesty through witty, risqué contes with ironic twists. Expect elegant coquettes, blasé dandies, devoted friends, and ingenuous brides caught in audacious situations that probe the gap between appearances and appetites.  The opening of the collection begins with a mischievous preface predicting a fashion revolution—bared bodies and veiled faces—as a metaphor for changing modesty. The first tales follow: a lover steals a rival’s intimate scent to win back her man, only to drive him back to the rival; a famed “repairer of jugs” (a fable on virginity) is confronted with a bride’s unbreakable vessel he himself once “fixed”; two inseparable friends link their boudoirs with an electric bell to synchronize their marital ecstasies, which leads one to yield disastrously during a daytime intrusion; a flawless beauty laments that her very perfection proves a handicap in love; a boastful cynic’s infallible jealousy trap is undone by a telltale blond hair; a Parisienne who rates lovers by the cigarettes she smokes afterward finds true stamina with a rustic; and a lady lowered from a hayloft disguised as a straw bundle is abducted by a farmhand who weighs her fate. The section closes by launching a new story in which a narrator posits that desire can transmit silently from one person to another, just as he begins a tale of his innocent young wife. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76252,908,'Reading ease score: 74.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76252,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76252,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76252,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76252,703);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76253,520,'"Trois hommes dans un bateau" by Jerome K. Jerome is a humorous novel written in the late 19th century. It follows three friends—J., George, and Harris—and a fox-terrier, Montmorency, who set out on a boating holiday up the Thames in search of rest and change. The tone blends travelogue and comedy, poking fun at hypochondria, overwork, and social habits through deadpan anecdotes and genial satire.  The opening of the novel shows the trio diagnosing themselves as “overworked” while the narrator, a comic hypochondriac, recalls convincing himself he had every disease in a medical book until a doctor prescribes steak, beer, long walks, and early nights. They debate vacation plans, reject a sea voyage amid tales of seasickness, and settle on the Thames, compromising to camp in fine weather and sleep at inns in the rain, while Montmorency’s mischief-loving character is introduced. Planning turns to what to bring: George wisely insists on essentials, there is bravado about morning swims and naive talk of laundering in the river, and they avoid paraffin and cheese after malodorous past disasters (capped by an extended cheese fiasco). Provisions and gear are listed; packing becomes farce as J. battles the eternal toothbrush, George and Harris crush and misplace items (notably butter in the kettle), and Montmorency gleefully sabotages. They oversleep on departure day until Mrs. Poppets rouses them, and the scene ends with George awakened in a rush and stepping straight into a tub. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76253,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Men_in_a_Boat https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trois_Hommes_dans_un_bateau',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76253,908,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76253,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76253,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76253,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76253,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76254,520,'"Kornelius Vanderwelts Gefährtin : Roman" by Rudolf Herzog is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on the Rhine-Ruhr shipping world and the larger‑than‑life broker Kornelius Vanderwelt, whose charisma, appetite for life, and feel for people drive both his business and his private affairs. A chance roadside encounter with a proud young woman hints at a personal entanglement that may challenge his self-assured dominance.  The opening of the novel shows a young woman flagging down Kornelius’s car; he flirts brazenly, oversteps with impulsive kisses, and she escapes in the city bustle, leaving him unsettled. Kornelius then turns to work in Ruhrort, where his sharp eye for weather and markets lets him outmaneuver a Rotterdam firm and secure a major coal shipment. At home, we see his contrasting role as widower and father—correcting a rigid music lesson, sparring playfully with his three children, and insisting on self-reliance—before he heads back into the night, restless. The scene shifts to the Schifferbörse, a vivid portrait of the port’s crowd of small skippers and big reeders, where Kornelius uses quick calculations and generous rates to win loyalty and speed. Back at his office he assigns loading orders and motivates individual captains—Gebhardt, Petrus, the dashing Hein—to move first and fast. The start establishes the bustling river setting, Kornelius’s commanding style, and the tension between commerce, camaraderie, and the private stir provoked by the mysterious girl. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76254,908,'Reading ease score: 84.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76254,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76254,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76255,520,'Forradalom alatt irt művek by Mór Jókai is a collection of political journalism, essays, and literary sketches written in the mid-19th century. Drawing on pieces composed during the Hungarian Revolution, it captures the exhilaration of March 15 in Pest, the push for press freedom and the Twelve Points, the birth of the National Guard, and the evolving mood from hopeful unity to grim resolve. The volume blends reportage, manifestos, and lyrical prose to portray a nation awakening to citizenship and responsibility.  The opening of this collection begins with a reflective preface in which the author explains why he is gathering and curating his scarce, revolutionary-era writings: to preserve the voice and moods of 1848–1849 while discarding pieces unworthy in tone. He recounts personal ruptures and upheavals (a break with a close poet-friend, marriage, a house fire, taking up arms, then turning to edit a daily paper) before the text shifts into on-the-ground accounts of March 15: the proclamation of demands, the printing of them without censorship, the freeing of a political prisoner, and the orderly formation of a citizen guard. Subsequent short pieces exhort the youth to discipline and unity, call on women to inspire and sustain the cause, rebuke royal delay, and frame the revolution as a life-giving dawn rather than bloodshed. There are also literary preludes and meditations—on past calamities, national symbols, and the ethics of nobility and “the people”—that chart the period’s rapid swing from euphoria to sober, principled steadfastness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76255,908,'Reading ease score: 65.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76256,520,'Bretonne by Jacques Fréhel is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in a small Norman town battered by an iron winter, it follows the Breton Trégar-Creachmeur women—Jeffik and her younger sister Anne—who, under their devout, ailing mother, run the newly installed telegraph office while enduring provincial scorn and precarious poverty. Around them orbit a petty, cruel schoolmaster, his neglected centenarian aunt, a sly concierge-family, and a young Norwegian lodger whose arrival hints at change and nascent romance. The book reads as a regional social portrait that blends satire of local mores with lyrical evocations of sea, marsh, and wind.  The opening of the novel paints the town''s harsh season and its people: boys sliding on frozen ditches, bourgeois hunters boasting, and a one-eyed commissary mocked for fishing frogs—signs of the locals’ contempt for “outsider” functionaries. The telegraph post is given to widows’ daughters, bringing the Trégar-Creachmeurs—with their sea-worn heirlooms—into the drafty municipal château, where Jeffik (20) and Anne (9) gaze out at the river traffic and dream. We meet the sour schoolmaster Boscher, his money-making boarding scheme, the gentle factotum Saussaie, and the shady concierge Ledormeur; a Norwegian youth, Arvid Swevenmor, arrives as Boscher’s boarder. A nocturnal crisis strikes when Boscher’s very old aunt Perpétue is found hanging from a window ledge; she is rescued by Arvid and the girls’ mother, only for Boscher and his wife to respond with callousness. The section closes with Jeffik’s dream-lit reverie and a sharp sketch of Ledormeur’s petty graft and carousing, setting the social tensions and emotional stakes that will drive the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76256,908,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76256,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76256,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76257,520,'"The Crimson Circle" by Edgar Wallace is a crime novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on a ruthless blackmail-and-murder syndicate that terrorizes the wealthy, drawing in a famed intuitive sleuth, Derrick Yale, the stolid Inspector Parr, and the wealthy Beardmores. As the gang’s threats escalate, young Jack Beardmore seeks justice for his father while Thalia Drummond—an enigmatic secretary with questionable ties—becomes a pivotal figure whose loyalties are unclear. The story promises a cat-and-mouse hunt for a hidden mastermind who manipulates victims and accomplices from the shadows.  The opening of The Crimson Circle introduces a shadowy organization that recruits desperate men in secret, then pivots to a wave of extortion notes culminating in the marked targeting of magnate James Beardmore. After a crimson circle appears on a tree near his estate, Beardmore is shot in a nearby wood; Yale and Parr begin probing clues—spent cartridges, pointed boot prints, cigar ash—while suspicion ripples toward onlooker Felix Marl and the cool, self-possessed Thalia, who is soon arrested for pawning her employer’s idol. Thalia is bound over but promptly summoned by the Circle, installed as secretary at Brabazon’s bank, and told to monitor Marl and movements at the bank; meanwhile a sailor confesses to the shooting as a hired killer and is silenced by cyanide with the Circle’s mark left behind. Early threads interweave Marl’s leverage over banker Brabazon, Thalia’s calculated poise and new assignment, and the rivalry-cum-partnership of Yale and Parr as they begin closing on the gang’s elusive core. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76257,908,'Reading ease score: 82.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76258,520,'"Hilja, maitotyttö :  ynnä muita sirpaleita by Johannes Linnankoski" is a collection of short stories and lyrical-essay fragments written in the early 20th century. The book traces themes of rural life, moral awakening, love, and the fragile purity of feeling when it meets the world’s coarseness.  The opening story follows Hilja, a dairymaid in a manor’s orbit, who is preyed upon by the brutal foreman Niia but slowly reclaims her self-respect through the quiet, respectful attention of a summer visitor, Eino Yrjä; their daily exchanges—glances, brief words—help her resist Niia’s hold, yet the visitor departs with autumn, leaving Hilja both steadied and desolate. Hymy is a vignette at a railway station: a serving girl’s spontaneous, generous smile lights the room, only to be “killed” when a cyclist tries to tip her, showing how money can tarnish pure kindness. Suudelma tells of a man who, during a separation, seeks license to kiss others; years later he begs one last kiss from his first love and finds the magic gone, learning that the unique rapture he squandered cannot be recovered. Nuoruudelle is a hymn to youth, rejoicing in early strength, first love, and the world’s newness, while a reflective voice accepts aging and gives thanks for having been young. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76258,908,'Reading ease score: 50.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76259,520,'"Orvon onni" by Heikki Meriläinen is a novel written in the early 20th century. It portrays Finnish rural life through the trials of an orphaned girl, Mimmi (later Minna), after sudden family tragedy. As she passes from a humble homestead to a pastor’s household and then into service with a neighboring gentry family, the story centers on loss, charity, social rank, and a young woman’s resilience.  The opening follows a hardworking couple, Pekka and Kerttu, who carve out a lakeside home where their small daughter Mimmi is the joy of the household. During haymaking, a storm breaks and lightning kills Pekka, leaving Kerttu shattered; soon after, illness takes her too, and Mimmi is found and sheltered by Timolan mummo. The child is then taken to the pastor Pilvensalo’s home, where the kindly couple accept her, cherishing even her tear-stained primer as a symbol of her ordeal. As years pass, Minna proves gifted with animals and is sent to work for the Hövelin family, where a young master’s flirtation turns to teasing and the household boys mock her as “Minka.” The section closes with a cruel snowballing on Christmas Eve that injures her eye, underscoring her vulnerability amid classed households and hard fortunes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76259,908,'Reading ease score: 51.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76259,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76260,520,'"Hand made furniture and how to make it by Albert G. Glidden" is a practical woodworking manual from the early 20th century. It guides home craftsmen in making sturdy, Arts and Crafts–style furniture, focusing on hand tools, sound joinery, surface preparation, and simple, honest design.  The book opens with a case for hand-built furniture, then explains essential tools and how to sharpen and use them. It sets up a basic shop (saw horses, bench, vise, bench stop) and leads the reader through core exercises: squaring stock, halving joints, mortise-and-tenon, panelling, dowelling and edge-joining, mitres, and lap dovetails. It covers fastenings and glue practice, methods for dressing and scraping surfaces, and finishes including wipe stains, dyes, paste filler, wax polish, and shellac. The second half presents measured plans and step-by-step directions for projects such as a piano/organ bench, plant stand, magazine stand, music cabinet, hall seat, hat tree, dining table, side chair, Morris chair, and library table, emphasizing accurate layout, clean joints, and durable construction. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76260,908,'Reading ease score: 88.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76260,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76260,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76261,520,'Tales of terror by Dick Donovan is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The volume blends crime, the uncanny, and psychological dread, with vivid narrators confronting eerie, often lethal phenomena. The opening tale centers on Dr. Peter Haslar’s struggle to save his friend Jack Redcar from Annette, a mesmerizing, vampire-like woman whose “oily eyes” exert a fatal power.  The opening of the collection follows Dr. Haslar as he answers a desperate plea from Maude Redcar and learns how Annette first ensnared Jack during the honeymoon, insinuated herself into their home, and seemed to bring ruin—including the loss of their child. Haslar tracks the pair to Spain, where Annette dominates Jack and subtly weakens the doctor, until he witnesses her feeding on Jack in the mountains; a final confrontation ends with Jack’s death and Annette’s disappearance, while an inquiry clears Haslar. A sequel chapter then compiles “official records,” tracing Annette’s earlier life as Isabella Ribera of Andalusia—born with unnerving eyes, precociously cold, and drawn to blood—through a string of aliases across Europe and America. In each locale, men who fall under her spell sicken with strange anemia and a small neck mark, while courts fail to prove poison and observers note her hypnotic “oily” eyes and silvery voice. The segment closes as this dossier nears the period of her meeting with Redcar, reinforcing the sense of a human vampire leaving a trail of inexplicable deaths. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76261,908,'Reading ease score: 74.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76262,520,'"Beer, its history and its economic value as a national beverage" by F. W. Salem is a historical and economic treatise written in the late 19th century. It argues that pure, well-made beer is a temperate, healthful alternative to distilled spirits and should be supported by sensible regulation. The work combines history, brewing science, public policy, and social economics to advocate adopting beer as a national drink.  The opening of the book presents a clear thesis—“Beer against whisky”—claiming prohibitory laws fail while accessible, pure beer advances true temperance. It then surveys beer’s long lineage from ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome through medieval Europe: monastic brewing, early regulations, and famed beer centers and figures (such as the brewer-statesman Jacob van Artevelde, the folkloric Gambrinus, William Penn, and General Israel Putnam). A vivid picture follows of Renaissance drinking customs, notable beers (Eimbeck, Braunschweig Mumme), the Munich court brewery and bock, and the rise, dip, and revival of beer culture. The narrative shifts to modern policy, highlighting countries that promoted beer to curb spirits—Germany, Austro-Hungary, the Low Countries, Scandinavia, Russia, France, England (the Beer Bill), and even Egypt, Japan, and Persia—arguing social order and public health improved as beer spread. It explains how beer is made, outlines its composition and nutritive value, and counters claims of adulteration with scientific reasoning and trade realities, including a brief Newark controversy and a correction of misattributed statements to Liebig. The section ends by noting that hops transformed the art of brewing and broadened beer styles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76262,908,'Reading ease score: 72.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76262,655);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76262,682);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76262,696);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76262,694);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76263,520,'"Heritage of the sea by W. R. Bethel" is a pulp short sea-adventure story written in the late 1920s. Set in the Prohibition era, it follows a rum-running captain on Long Island Sound whose seamanship and sense of honor are tested in a deadly fog after a collision at sea.  On a blacked-out run through thick fog, a hard-nosed skipper guides his rum boat while his jittery backer, Joe Parento, urges retreat. When a tramp steamer rams a dark-laying Coast Guard cutter and flees, the captain snaps on lights, lowers boats, and rescues the survivors, even as Parento pulls a gun and wounds him in a panic to protect the cargo. The captain knocks Parento out, disarms him, and, while guarding his shipment, treats the rescued sailors decently with dry clothes and a drink. Weak from his wound, he lets the Coast Guard commander take the bridge to steer the rum-runner back toward Rum Row so the guardsmen can signal for pickup—leaving the tale on the note that, in fog that blinds the eye, honor still charts the course. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76263,908,'Reading ease score: 93.0 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76264,520,'"De Oñate a La Granja" by Benito Pérez Galdós is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. It follows the young liberal Fernando Calpena and the priest Pedro Hillo, who are jailed at the behest of a powerful, unseen patroness while Madrid boils with conspiracies, journalistic feuds, and court politics during the First Carlist War. Love, identity, and social ambition intersect with sharp sketches of statesmen and soldiers, foreshadowing the crisis that leads from Oñate to the La Granja uprising. Expect intimate intrigue tightly woven into national history.  The opening of this novel presents Calpena and Hillo enduring a paid cell, trading bitter jokes about their captor and the farce of politics, while Calpena’s fury subsides into anxious thoughts of his beloved Aura. A long letter from the “incógnita” apologizes yet justifies their confinement as the only way to stop Fernando’s ruinous romance, promises to protect Hillo’s clerical reputation and future, and reports that Aura is being whisked away north; she then bombards Fernando with witty, cutting dispatches from Madrid—on the premiere of El trovador, venomous journalism, censorship, Mendizábal’s virtues and limits, and a fervent panegyric of General Córdova, even floating talk of a dictatorship. Restless, Calpena ventures into the patio, meets the conspiratorial Rufete, Canencia, and Fonsagrada—who hail him as a key agitator tied to the Guard—and arranges to “coordinate” future moves; he also crosses paths with Iglesias and hears of Aviraneta’s shadowy reach. The section ends as these prison-yard allies begin to share messages linked to Calpena’s past connections. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76264,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_O%C3%B1ate_a_La_Granja',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76264,908,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76264,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76264,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76264,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76265,520,'"The Musket Boys of Old Boston : or, The first blow for liberty" by George A. Warren is a historical adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set on the eve of the American Revolution, it follows spirited boys—Phil Warrington of Boston, his Concord chum Andy Sabine, and the hunted but loyal Burt Noble—as they stumble into plots, powder, and patriot networks around Boston and Concord. Expect fast-paced exploits, Tory antagonists like Jasper Bram, and close ties to real figures and events as the boys edge toward the first clash for liberty.  The opening of the story finds Phil visiting Andy in Concord, where they spot a mysterious boy with a muskrat cap testing a puff of gunpowder and then flee. After a chase and a tangle in a thorny ravine, their guns are stolen by Greg Bram but recovered by old soldier Silas Berks, who hints that his cannon “Old Tom” will signal trouble from Boston. The boys rescue the mysterious lad from Jasper Bram’s stone shed; he proves to be Burt Noble, a patriot agent with a pass signed by Joseph Warren who has secretly removed four kegs of powder from Bram and hidden them for the colonists, sending Andy’s father a note with the cache’s location. When Bram brings officers to seize Burt at the old cooper’s mill, Andy stalls them while Phil barrels Burt downriver to safety; Burt also slips Phil a clue suggesting Jasper Bram holds papers tied to Phil’s family. That night Berks fires his cannon after a pigeon message warns that Gage plans to arrest Warren, Adams, and Hancock, prompting the boys to ride through the night to Lowell. There, thugs briefly seize Phil, Andy rescues him, and they deliver their warning to Dr. Warren—along with a packet Andy caught that turns out to be the Sons of Liberty’s secret records—confirming treachery and setting urgent plans in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76265,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76265,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76265,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76265,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76265,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76266,520,'"Pistis Sophia" by G. Horner and Francis Legge is a scholarly translation and study written in the early 20th century. It presents an authoritative English rendering of a Coptic Gnostic scripture alongside a substantial historical and theological introduction. The focus is on early Christian Gnosticism—its cosmology, rituals, and texts—framed by manuscript scholarship, patristic testimony, and debates over authorship (likely within the Valentinian tradition). Readers can expect a rigorous, source-based exploration rather than devotional or narrative content.  The opening of the work defines Gnosticism’s aims and sources, reviews how the Coptic manuscript entered scholarship, and surveys prior editions and translations before describing the codex’s physical features, scribal hands, and probable Greek originals. It then summarizes six constituent documents: an initial account of Jesus’ post-resurrection revelations and the allegory of Pistis Sophia’s fall, penitence, and rescue; a continuation that elaborates heavenly hierarchies and graded “mysteries” promising ascent to the Light; a brief fragment on the Ineffable; a third piece centered on hells, punishments, and the soul’s parts; a fourth that blends astral lore, visionary ascent, and magical-ritual sacraments; and a fifth cataloging sins and postmortem torments, often invoking pagan deities as demonic agents. The editor argues the compilation was likely made for official or judicial scrutiny of heresy, deliberately omitting operational magical details. He further contends the earliest stratum is Alexandrian and probably Valentinian, predating widespread use of the Fourth Gospel, while later layers show a decline into magic and astrology, and he correlates distinctive phrases with patristic critiques to support these claims. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76266,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pistis_Sophia',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76266,908,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76266,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76266,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76266,659);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76267,520,'"France in eighteen hundred and two :  Described in a series of contemporary…." by Henry Redhead Yorke is a historical travel narrative in letters written in the early 19th century. It presents an English observer’s on‑the‑spot account of France during the Consulate, tracing a journey from Calais to Paris and reflecting on the social and political aftermath of the Revolution. Expect sharp commentary on bureaucracy, policing, military dominance, and moral tone, alongside vivid descriptions of ruined churches, emptied châteaux, beggar‑crowded towns, and the everyday realities of travel.  The opening of this volume begins with Richard Davey’s introduction and the editor’s note explaining the rediscovery and pruning of Yorke’s scarce letters, sketching his path from youthful radicalism to a chastened liberalism after imprisonment, and framing the letters as a critique of Revolutionary excess, Napoleonic spoliation, and cultural decline. Yorke’s first letters then narrate his landing at Calais—petty passport ordeals, a squalid cabaret, and a frank soldier’s view that the army fights for “glory and plenty,” not liberty—followed by a portrait of humane municipal leaders who spared Calais from Terror, contrasted with Joseph Le Bon’s atrocities elsewhere. He details travel logistics and costs, then moves post by post through Boulogne, Montreuil, Abbeville, and Amiens, recording wrecked monasteries, pervasive beggary, women at the plough, poor husbandry, grasping innkeepers, and the mutilated cathedral at Amiens, capped by a chilling anecdote of Le Bon’s fall. From Chantilly he mourns the obliteration of the Condé estates (stables surviving, palaces razed, gardens and menageries destroyed), and at S. Denys he finds the royal necropolis gutted. Entering Paris, he notes the absence of a stabilizing middle class, endures comic‑grim battles with fashion and a predatory hairdresser, and closes this opening stretch at the Police Ministry amid queues, soldiers’ privilege, and a brusque, militarized bureaucracy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76267,908,'Reading ease score: 57.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58370,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christina_Anne_Jessica_Cavendish-Bentinck');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76268,520,'The Sea Girl by Ray Cummings is a science fiction novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a near-future 1990 of sub-sea freighters and airliners, it pits humanity against a baffling undersea menace as oceans mysteriously recede and ships vanish without a trace. The story centers on navigator Geoffry Grant, the driven oceanographer Dr. Plantet, his practical daughter Polly, and the dreamer Arturo, who glimpses a girl inside a strange metallic globe beneath the waves. Their intertwined paths lead to a daring deep-sea expedition and an uncanny encounter with a “sea girl” on a remote Micronesian atoll.  The opening of the novel follows escalating Pacific disasters, a glimpse of a luminous undersea globe with a young woman’s face, and worldwide anomalies—abnormal tides, quakes, and volcanoes venting steam—culminating in Dr. Plantet’s stark conclusion that Earth’s honeycombed crust is draining the oceans and that a hidden human-like civilization may be rising to challenge the surface. As governments mobilize and censorship lifts, he builds the Dolphin, a revolutionary craft rated to two thousand fathoms, and sets out with Grant and Polly to scout the Pacific deeps. On the eve of departure, Arturo vanishes, leaving a note and secretly flying to the reported “mermaid” atoll, where he meets a shy, intelligent sea girl and begins to win her trust. Meanwhile, the Dolphin searches westward across the basin, finds no enemy sign, then receives Arturo’s urgent midnight call to rendezvous at the island. The section closes with Arturo waiting by a cave on the moonlit shore after the girl slips back into the water’s darkness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76268,908,'Reading ease score: 85.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76268,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76268,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76268,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76269,520,'"L''évolution actuelle du monde: illusions et réalités" by Gustave Le Bon is a socio-political and psychological treatise written in the early 20th century. It analyzes how modern civilization is being reshaped by the clash of material innovations (steam, electricity, coal, oil) and immaterial forces (beliefs, mysticism, crowd psychology), and it probes the illusions surrounding peace, security, disarmament, alliances, and arbitration. The work argues that destructive collective passions, revolutionary faiths, and ancestral legacies threaten Europe even as America rises, and that only a hard-headed grasp of collective psychology and economic realities can temper conflict.  The opening of this treatise sketches a world poised between an old order and a new one, driven by creative, conservative, and destructive forces: Europe is fractured by border rivalries and party strife, dictatorships emerge, Britain is shaken by strikes and imperial strain, Russia regresses, the East is in turmoil, while America amasses wealth and influence. Le Bon warns that science has multiplied destructive means, that the League of Nations and legalistic arbitration cannot overcome clashing mentalities, and that alliances endure only while interests align—economic arrangements may preserve peace better than pacts. He stresses that collective forces are irrational, future wars may be internal and ideological, and that syndicalism and socialism function as modern religions responding to a persistent human need for faith. Early chapters contrast material power (especially coal and oil) with immaterial power (mysticism and belief), illustrate enduring credulity—even among eminent scientists—with spiritist and pseudo-scientific episodes, and lay out laws for how beliefs spread. He then posits the “soul of the race,” the commanding will of the dead shaping the living, to explain national continuity and the instability of mixed peoples, using France’s oscillations and other historical cases. Finally, he attributes major political disasters to errors of psychology, notes how personalities transform under revolutionary conditions, and critiques pacifist, disarmament, alliance, and arbitration illusions, concluding that only unity and credible defense can provide real security. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76269,908,'Reading ease score: 58.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76270,520,'"Aamukellot" by Adolf Schmitthenner is a historical novella written in the early 20th century. Set in a Renaissance German town under Elector Ottheinrich, it follows a young stranger, Sabinus, who kills a court servant in a quarrel at a dance and is condemned to be shot at dawn. The tale centers on Veronika, a compassionate local girl, and the Elector himself as conscience, mercy, and public justice collide around the fate of the condemned youth.  The opening of the story shows a crowd escorting the wounded, captured Sabinus through town, where Ottheinrich intervenes, has his bonds loosened, questions him about the fatal brawl over Veronika, and fixes the execution to the end of the morning bells. That night Veronika, desperate to save him, secretly enters the church, climbs the tower, removes one bell’s clapper and muffles another, then at dawn keeps the third bell ringing without pause so the signal to shoot never comes, throwing the town into panic over “bewitched” bells. Seeing both the girl’s courage and a way to temper justice with mercy, Ottheinrich slips into the tower, restores the bells with Veronika, and quietly arranges Sabinus’s release and flight to fight honorably in Hungary, while his aide prepares horses, clothes, money, and a letter of introduction. The section closes with the Elector’s private rescue plan in motion and a promise to Veronika that, if Sabinus returns with honor, he will seek her hand on the young man’s behalf. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76270,908,'Reading ease score: 54.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76270,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76270,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76270,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76271,520,'"Pyhä Yrjänä, eli Runous, rakkaus ja raha: kolminäytöksinen huvinäytelmä" by Haarla is a three-act comedy play written in the early 20th century. It’s a sharp, metatheatrical satire where a penniless writer engineers a charity staging of the Saint George legend to pit poetry, love, and money against one another in a small-city milieu. The comedy revolves around the ambitious actor Eevert Urpia, the powerful mayor Adam Bilde, Bilde’s captivated wife Ruth, the exacting critic Ihanelma Palmu, and the barber–balladeer Polle, as desire and finance clash on and off the stage. Expect playful irreverence about cultural authority, sly plotting, and romantic entanglements that threaten public respectability.  The opening of the play sets the scene in the mayor’s grand home, where the impoverished playwright Hans Korp spars with a vain actor, a cautious theater director, and a self-important critic, while secretly ferrying a note from Ruth to the actor Urpia. Spotting a chance to turn life into drama, Korp rewrites the pious Saint George pageant into a bolder love-and-revolt piece: during rehearsal the crowd (egged on by Lill’ Margit) cries down the “king,” Urpia’s Saint George openly woos Ruth-as-princess, and the enraged mayor storms in, vowing to fire Urpia. At the start of the second act in the “Nubia” restaurant, Polle pines for Lill’ Margit, Selma pleads and is rebuffed by Urpia, and Ruth arrives, determined to choose love; Korp insists they need cunning, not blunt confession, to outwit the mayor. He then stage-manages a farcical trap with Lill’ Margit on a sofa and Bilde arriving alone, a setup poised to compromise the mayor just as other guests begin to enter. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76271,908,'Reading ease score: 46.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76271,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76271,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76272,520,'"The five republics of Central America: their political and economic…" by Dana G. Munro is a scholarly historical and political study written in the early 20th century. It analyzes Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras, and Costa Rica—their geographies, societies, economies, and political institutions since independence—while assessing how foreign, especially U.S., influence shapes their development. Aimed at correcting stereotypes and informing policy, it balances critique with recognition of progress, focusing on class structures, agriculture (coffee and bananas), governance, revolutions, finance, and international relations.  The opening of the study sets out Munro’s purpose: to replace superficial caricatures with a careful, firsthand account based on travel, documents, and interviews, and to stress why U.S. understanding matters. It first surveys the land and people, detailing climate zones, the urban elite and its reliance on plantation agriculture, the mestizo artisan class, and the largely Indigenous laboring majority—covering living conditions, wages, disease (including hookworm campaigns), education gaps (strongest in Costa Rica, weakest in Guatemala), and the waning influence of the Catholic Church. It explains how colonial isolation, poor transport, and later the rise of coffee and banana exports (notably United Fruit on the Caribbean coast), railways, and foreign capital reshaped economies and social power, often to the advantage of foreigners. The narrative then sketches Central American political institutions from independence: annexationist debates, the short-lived federation, Liberal–Conservative strife, and the drift toward centralized presidents, sham elections, executive dominance over congress and courts, military conscription, patronage, and pervasive graft, with revolution as the routine means of change. Beginning its country studies with Guatemala, it recounts Conservative rule under Carrera, Liberal triumph under Barrios (anticlerical reforms and failed union bid), and the long, repressive Estrada Cabrera era marked by secret policing, censorship, and low-paid, corrupt officialdom—emphasizing order maintained at the cost of civic life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76272,908,'Reading ease score: 41.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76272,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76272,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76272,694);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76273,520,'"Por kaj kontraŭ Esperanto :  Dialogo by Henri Vallienne" is a polemical dialogue written in the early 20th century. It presents a reasoned debate about an international auxiliary language, weighing objections and defenses of Esperanto. Framed as a conversational essay, it explores language, culture, and practicality, arguing that a neutral, easy, and regular tongue can aid science, commerce, travel, and understanding without replacing national languages.  The book stages a lively exchange between Henriko, an ardent Esperantist, and Aleksandro, a skeptic who drops in after a train mishap. Henriko counters claims that an invented language is unnatural or unworkable, insisting Esperanto stays stable because it functions as a written, foreign medium among educated users, not as a replacement for native speech. He dismisses Latin as too hard and ill-suited to modern needs, demonstrating its inadequacy with a forced translation of railway terms, and contrasts Esperanto’s fixed pronunciation, simple grammar, and international roots. He cites congresses where speakers of many nations converse fluently, shows its utility for business and travel, and praises its power to open scientific literature and mirror the style of classics through supple translation (even when reciting Virgil). Henriko also touts its pedagogic clarity and envisions it as a modern heir to Latin—an instrument of peace and cooperation—before Aleksandro departs for his train, only half-convinced but intrigued. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76273,908,'Reading ease score: 53.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58373,'eo.wikipedia','https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Vallienne');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76274,520,'"The wilds of Patagonia :  a narrative of the Swedish expedition to Patagonia,…." by Carl Skottsberg is an exploration narrative and scientific travelogue written in the early 20th century. It chronicles a Swedish expedition across the Falkland Islands, Tierra del Fuego, and southern Patagonia, blending firsthand travel with studies in geology, botany, zoology, geography, and ethnography. Expect close observations of harsh landscapes and rich coastal life, the logistics and perils of fieldwork, and encounters with settlers, officials, and indigenous communities.  The opening of this volume sets up the expedition’s origins and aims in a preface that introduces the small Swedish team, their disciplines, funding, and debts to Argentine, Chilean, and Falkland support. It then follows their arrival at Port Stanley: a portrait of the town’s institutions, social life, bleak treeless scenery, and the dramatic marine “forests” of giant kelps. Subsequent chapters recount coastal and island trips by schooner amid strong tides and gales, a glimpse of the last wild cattle and the extinct Falkland fox, seabird rookeries, evidence of vanished forests and “stone-runs,” and a long horseback traverse of West and East Falkland—with shepherd life, mountain ascents, and notable fossil plant finds in Lafonia. The narrative shifts to Punta Arenas, where Chilean naval help is secured, and includes a critical visit to the Salesian mission on Dawson Island before moving into Admiralty Inlet. From a camp in a sheltered cove, the party battles bogs and dense beech forest to reach Lago Fagnano, living on guanaco meat, ferrying loads by a canvas boat, and establishing “Expedition’s Cove.” It closes this opening stretch with vivid camp life and the start of a demanding push toward the Betbeder Pass over snowy ridges and through tangled forest. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76274,908,'Reading ease score: 66.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76274,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76274,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76274,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76275,520,'"The Little Review, January 1917 (Vol. 3, No. 8) by Various" is a literary magazine issue from the early 20th century. It is a modernist arts-and-letters periodical that mixes essays, criticism, poetry, and a retold tale. The issue’s likely focus is the meaning and function of art—how to judge it, how artists work, and how audiences mistake emotion, truth, and taste for art itself.  The issue opens with Margaret C. Anderson’s The Great Emotional Mind, a bracing catalogue of popular fallacies about art and a defense of art as the deliberate, selective expression of personality. Eunice Tietjens’s Chinoiseries offers brief, vivid poems drawn from Chinese history and legend. A suite of cultural columns by “jh.” ranges from a fervent celebration of Mary Garden’s total art in grand opera to reflections on Tagore’s lecture (“What Is Art?”), critiques of stage design, a defense of George Moore’s artistic license, notes on A. E.’s paintings, a cameo of Fritz Kreisler as pianist, and quick takes on Sargent, Dearth, Henri, Bellows, Sloan, and Szukalski. “Huppdiwupp,” a tender Christmas tale retold from the German, follows poor Friedel and his carved horse to a visionary meeting with the Christ-child that blesses creative gift over money. The Reader Critic section stages sharp debates: a soldier’s demand for art that serves desire and action versus Anderson’s rebuttal; exchanges on “miracle,” beauty, and form; pleas for social vision set against the editors’ insistence on form; a satirical urban triptych (“Murine and Koka-Kola”) with editorial pushback; and a spirited quarrel over Sherwood Anderson’s novel. Notices, a statement of ownership, and ads close the number. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76275,908,'Reading ease score: 79.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76275,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76276,520,'"El lindo don Diego : Comedia" by Agustín Moreto is a stage comedy written in the mid-17th century. It satirizes vanity and social pretension through the figure of a preening fop, Don Diego, entangled in arranged-marriage plans with his cousins Inés and Leonor, while the honorable Don Juan secretly loves Inés. Expect witty intrigue, sharp character sketches, and a gracioso servant stirring mischief. The tone blends courtship games, familial duty, and comic deception.  The opening of this play sets the conflict: Don Tello plans to marry his daughters, Leonor and Inés, to his nephews, Don Mendo and the self-adoring Don Diego, devastating Don Juan, who loves Inés. Inés didn’t know of the arrangement and, with Leonor, weighs how to resist; Mosquito, the clever servant, skewers Don Diego’s ridiculous vanity. The cousins arrive: Mendo proves modest and wins Leonor’s favor, while Inés frankly tells Don Diego she cannot love him and begs him to withdraw, which he obtusely misreads as jealousy. To save Inés, Mosquito plants a false trail by disguising Beatriz as a rich countess who flatters Don Diego in ornate, “culto” speech; the fop immediately pivots to pursue her, leaving the arranged match wobbling as Don Juan steps in to confront him, and the intrigues begin to tighten. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76276,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_lindo_don_Diego',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76276,908,'Reading ease score: 76.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76276,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76276,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76277,520,'"Notes d''un voyage en Corse" by Prosper Mérimée is an archaeological travelogue written in the early 19th century. It surveys Corsica’s ancient and medieval monuments, combining field observation with brief historical sketches and cautious hypotheses about their origins. Framed as a report by France’s inspector of historic monuments, it moves from prehistoric megaliths to scarce Roman traces and then to medieval churches, noting how poverty, invasions, and geography shaped what was built and what survives.  The opening of this work sets out the plan to classify Corsican monuments by epoch and begins with a rapid, sober history of the island from early contacts (Greeks, Etruscans, Carthaginians) through Rome, Arab raids, Pisan rule, and Genoese domination. Mérimée then documents pre-Roman remains—dolmens (stazzone) and standing stones (stantare) in the Taravo, Rizzanese, and Cauria valleys—recording measurements, features like carved runnels, local names and legends, and comparing them to Breton and English megaliths while pondering Celtic or Ligurian links (even glancing at physiognomy and dialect). He notes urn burials near Ajaccio and a crude gaine-shaped “idol” at Apricciani, and stresses the absence of Phoenician, Etruscan, or Sardinian-style monuments. Roman evidence proves scant and mostly at Aleria and Mariana; rough structures dubbed the Sala Reale and a small “cirque” may even be Moorish restorations rather than Roman. Brief notices on a granite quarry at Cavallo, slab-built tombs near Figari, and one late antique sarcophagus in Bonifacio lead into his transition toward assessing medieval churches. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76277,908,'Reading ease score: 67.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76277,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76277,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76277,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76277,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76277,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76278,520,'"A history of evolution by Carroll Lane Fenton" is a concise historical account of science written in the early 20th century. It surveys the development of the idea of organic evolution—what it is, how it works, and how people came to accept it—moving from ancient speculation to modern scientific methods.  The book opens with Greek nature-philosophers (Thales, Anaximander, Empedocles, Aristotle, Epicurus, Lucretius), then follows the thread through early Christian thinkers (notably Augustine), medieval Arabic scholarship, and the Renaissance and Enlightenment philosophers (Bacon, Descartes, Leibnitz, Kant) who argued for natural causes. It contrasts fanciful “speculative” writers with the “great naturalists”: Linnaeus’s classification, Buffon’s variability and environment, Erasmus Darwin’s transformist hints, and Lamarck’s use–disuse and branching descent, with support from St.-Hilaire, Goethe, and Treviranus. The core narrative centers on Charles Darwin’s method and synthesis—variation, the struggle for existence, and natural selection—his evidence, the controversy, and Huxley’s public defense. Post-Darwin, it reviews refinements and excesses, then highlights de Vries’s mutation theory and shows how selection and mutation can both operate, closing with the rise of genetics and experimental breeding, alongside ongoing evidence from paleontology, anatomy, and embryology, to affirm evolution as a well-established, continually investigated fact. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76278,908,'Reading ease score: 45.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76278,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76278,655);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76279,520,'Hazel Bloom by Julia Carter Aldrich is a collection of lyric and devotional poems written in the late 19th century. The volume dwells on motherhood, home, nature’s cycles, Christian faith, and the moral texture of everyday joys and griefs, voiced by a contemplative, sympathetic speaker. Readers can expect meditations that move from flowers and landscapes to friendship, love, betrayal, death, and hope, seeking solace and purpose rather than spectacle. It will appeal to those who enjoy earnest, nature-rich, spiritually inflected verse.  The opening of the collection frames its aim with a dedication to mothers and a “Weaver” who chooses humble threads to comfort real lives. It then shifts between meditations on mystery and calamity’s humanizing power, the restorative language of flowers and evening quiet, and love lyrics that weigh constancy, estrangement, and regret alongside lessons of hope (witch‑hazel), labor, and rest. Domestic and spiritual pieces recall a mother’s touch, prize home over wealth, honor unseen bonds of friendship, confront betrayal, challenge fatalism with will, and face death through Christian consolation; the poet also praises a freer muse over rigid forms and celebrates childhood Junes, field blossoms, and Yosemite’s grandeur. Hymnal affirmations of Resurrection, compassionate portraits of Christ, and calls to “feed my lambs” lead into personal supplication and gentle pastoral reveries, culminating in affectionate memories of a country home and its riverside landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76279,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76279,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76279,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76279,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76280,520,'"Mathias Sandorf [1] :  Een verijdelde samenzwering; Dokter Antekirrt" by Jules Verne is a novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on a Hungarian independence conspiracy radiating from Trieste, following Count Mathias Sandorf and his allies Ladislas Zathmar and Stephanus Bathory, while opportunists like Sarcany and Zirone circle on the fringes. Expect coded messages, secret networks, and the clash between patriotism and greed.  The opening of the book paints bustling Trieste and introduces Sarcany and Zirone, two penniless adventurers who stumble upon an exhausted homing pigeon carrying a ciphered note. Reviving the bird and releasing it from the St. Justus tower, they track it to a house on the Acquedotto and learn it belongs to Count Zathmar. A curt remittance from banker Silas Toronthal reaches Sarcany, who decides to stay in Trieste despite being told to leave. The narrative then shifts to Count Mathias Sandorf: a wealthy Transylvanian magnate, widower, and fervent Magyar patriot who organizes a coordinated uprising with Zathmar and Bathory, using homing pigeons and a grille cipher to evade detection. Sandorf confirms strong support across Hungary and Transylvania, plans for swift seizure of key cities, and intends to draw on large funds deposited with Toronthal. As he returns to Zathmar’s house, he and Bathory suspect they are being watched. The section closes by sketching Toronthal’s prominent yet possibly strained banking house and hinting at past dealings linking him to Sarcany. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76280,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathias_Sandorf',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76280,908,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76281,520,'"The wanderer in Africa :  A tale illustrative of the thirty-second Psalm." by A. L. O. E. is a didactic Christian adventure tale written in the mid-19th century. It follows the fall and repentance of young Englishman David Aspinall as he wanders in southern Africa, with Psalm 32 shaping a story of guilt, grace, and providence amid desert perils and a cruel Boer master. Blending travel hazard with moral instruction, it likely targets younger or family readers who enjoy faith-centered adventure.  The opening of the tale shows David, a worn and remorseful servant to the hard-hearted Boer Hans Kuhe, keeping a lonely night watch in the African waste, where memories of home and verses from Psalm 32 awaken true repentance. Flashbacks tell how he defied his parents, fled rural Dorset for London, slid into vice, was shamed in court before his father, and then fled further to Africa to serve the Boer. Forsaken in the desert with a swollen ankle, he confesses his sins, survives on a providential melon and root, drives off wild dogs from a springbok, and keeps vigil through a lion-haunted night. At dawn a lion closes in, but two English hunters, Manners and Carlton, shoot it and befriend him; David resists the temptation to keep his cruel master’s lost purse, returns it via the hunters, and later they find the Boer stripped by Bushmen and dying from a poisoned arrow, underscoring the Psalm’s themes of confession, guidance, and deliverance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76281,908,'Reading ease score: 74.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76281,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76281,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76281,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76281,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76281,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76282,520,'"Reuben Roy''s temptations" by Eglanton Thorne is a novel written in the late 19th century. It is a moral coming‑of‑age tale set between village and factory, following a steady country lad whose faith and honesty are tested by city life, contrasted with a clever but vain contemporary, Owen Grant. Expect a didactic, evangelical tone, scenes of industrial Birmingham, and themes of temptation, courage, and integrity under pressure.  The opening of the story introduces Reuben’s humble, hard‑working family in Ashworth and his quiet bravery guarding strawberry fields, which draws the notice of Mr. Akenside, a Birmingham factory owner who offers him work. In parallel we meet Owen, the indulged only son of aging parents, whose small lapses—keeping a booking‑office overchange, skipping church, and swaggering with fast companions—hint at a looser moral compass. In Birmingham, Reuben endures mockery, homesickness, and a hostile foreman, Nat Savage, yet finds courage in a flower‑mission text and shows kindness to Kate Barnaby, a reckless girl later horribly injured by machinery. After Reuben refuses to lie for Savage, he stumbles on a pre‑dawn theft led by Savage and an accomplice; knocked senseless, he is framed with planted goods and dismissed in disgrace, struggles to find work, and keeps the burden from his mother. A turning point comes when the injured accomplice is found in hospital; Reuben carries word back, the dying man confesses the long‑running thefts, Savage is arrested, Reuben is cleared and compensated, and he sets off home, spirit lightened as spring approaches. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76282,908,'Reading ease score: 81.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76282,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76282,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76283,520,'"A marxizmus társadalomelmélete : Elméleti kritika és történelmi tanulságok" by Ottlik László is a scholarly treatise written in the early 20th century. The work offers a rigorous critique of Marxist social theory—especially its claims to scientific inevitability and its doctrine of historical materialism—paired with reflections drawn from recent history. It interrogates the logical, methodological, and ethical premises behind socialist prophecy and the notion of a predetermined communist future.  The opening of the treatise explains why Marxism retains mass appeal despite decades of criticism, attributing its power to material promises, moral indignation at inequality, and quasi-religious belief, while arguing that prior critiques miss the core fatalistic “scientific” prediction. It then presents Marx’s famous forecast of capital concentration and the “expropriation of the expropriators,” situates it in the age of positivism and evolutionism, and contends that exact social prediction is impossible unless one illegitimately excludes the conscious human factor. The author defends the stability of human moral nature against socialist rationalism, arguing that utopian schemes ignore enduring psychological realities. He next dissects “historical materialism,” quoting Marx’s preface, and claims it is misnamed economism and, in effect, fatalism; he faults the neglect of psychology, the undefined notion of “class,” and dialectical vagueness. Citing Engels’s later letters that retreat to “interaction” among factors, he argues the original one-way determination collapses, and notes that serious historians had long integrated economic causes (e.g., readings of Rome’s decline). The section concludes by tracing the prophecy’s roots to Hegel’s “negation of the negation” and the utopia of a marketless society, exposing logical gaps (such as those highlighted by Oppenheimer) and emphasizing that collapse does not entail communism; the author then sets up three logical paths for capitalism’s future to examine next. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76283,908,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76283,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76283,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76283,693);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76283,696);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58378,'eo.wikipedia','https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%A1szl%C3%B3_Ottlik');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76284,520,'"Paul and his interpreters: A critical history" by Albert Schweitzer is a scholarly critical history written in the early 20th century. It examines how interpretations of the Apostle Paul have evolved, centering on the problem of how Jesus’ originally Jewish, apocalyptic message transformed into Pauline doctrine and then into early Greek theology. The work will appeal to readers interested in biblical criticism, the history of dogma, and the intellectual shifts that shaped Christian theology.  The opening of the book sets out a bold agenda: to continue the author’s earlier reappraisal of Jesus by tracing the development from Jesus’ eschatological teaching to Paulinism and on to early Greek theology, exposing the gaps that traditional compartmentalized scholarship left unexplained. The preface argues that critical theology must confront the “Hellenisation” of the Gospel and asks whether Paul marks its first stage or still stands within Jewish apocalyptic thought; it also outlines a historical survey approach and notes the deliberate omission of much English and American literature. The first chapter reviews the beginnings of historical-critical exegesis, moving from Reformation proof-texting to Grotius’ philological independence, Semler’s historical method and literary hypotheses, Schleiermacher’s doubts about the Pastorals, Eichhorn’s broader rejection of them, and early attempts (Usteri, H. E. G. Paulus) to systematize Paul, including the tension between juridical and ethical strands. The next chapter presents Baur’s watershed thesis of a Petrine–Pauline conflict resolved amid second‑century Gnosticism, his privileging of four major epistles, and his Hegelian reading—followed by critiques from Ritschl, Lechler, and Lipsius, the last highlighting two parallel doctrinal lines in Paul. The third chapter sketches later scholarship: emerging consensus on which letters are genuine, debates over Colossians/Ephesians and 2 Thessalonians, the tendency to arrange Paul’s thought under dogmatic loci, psychologizing Paul’s development from the Damascus vision, and the insufficiently resolved questions of unity, relation to Jesus’ sayings, and the roles of late Judaism and Greek thought in shaping Paul’s ideas. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76284,908,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76284,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76284,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76285,520,'"Toni :  Alkuperäinen kertoelma" by Thilda Cederwaller is a novel written in the late 19th century. It appears to be a courtly romance and intrigue centered on Princess Antonia, a mysterious shipwrecked girl who resembles her, and the power players around them. A shrewd minister pushes a dynastic marriage to a wealthy prince to rescue a state in financial trouble, while a humane physician and an incognito suitor complicate the plan. Themes of identity, duty versus choice, and compassion run through a seaside castle, court salons, and quiet country lakes.  The opening of the story begins with a storm and shipwreck near the old castle of Rabenstein, where fishermen recover an unconscious young woman and ailing Princess Antonia lies under the care of Dr. Werner. The doctor notes the rescued stranger’s striking resemblance to the princess, even as a calculating minister arrives to press a political marriage between Antonia and Prince Albert, propped up by a romantic “Toni” legend. Time jumps forward: Antonia has been restored to health after travel, returns to court, charms and chafes against etiquette, and confides in Dr. Werner as he reveals the marriage scheme; she resolves not to be forced. Meanwhile, two travelers—Albert and his friend Walter—approach incognito, Albert revealing he knows the court’s plot and wishes to judge for himself, just as they glimpse two village girls singing on a lakeshore, hinting at coming crossings of class and identity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76285,908,'Reading ease score: 51.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76285,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76285,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76286,520,'"Elfin music : An anthology of English fairy poetry" by Waite and Sharp is a collection of poetry written in the late 19th century. The volume gathers English-language fairy verse across roughly six centuries, curated and introduced to explore the lore, landscapes, and figures of Faërie. It foregrounds iconic beings such as Oberon, Titania, Puck, and Queen Mab alongside sprites, pixies, water-nymphs, and mermaids, arranged in themed sections that move from vistas of Fairyland to chronicles, travels, and human–fairy encounters.  The opening of this anthology presents Arthur Edward Waite’s substantial introduction, which traces a contemporary revival of the romantic and supernatural in poetry; the etymology of “fairy” from Latin via French romance; and the blending of French, Teutonic, Celtic, and classical traditions into England’s elfin mythology. Waite contrasts lineages and beliefs (from Spenser’s elfin emperors to Shakespeare’s Indian-threaded lore), debates fairy stature and religion, and sketches the elfin court—Oberon, Titania/Mab, and Robin Goodfellow—alongside a taxonomy of land, sea, and underworld spirits. He retells key medieval romances—“Orfeo and Heurodis” and “The Knight Launfal”—to show how mortals journey into Fairyland, and explains the book’s thematic arrangement. After this, the selections begin with Poe’s dreamlike “Fairyland” and Hemans’s invocation to recall the elves, followed by portraits of the fairy family: Spenser’s dynastic rolls, Steward’s dressing of Oberon, Jonson’s and Shakespeare’s Queen Mab and lullaby for Titania, Puck’s fleet song, and Herrick’s playful fairy chapels and feasts. Early pieces also widen the realm to pixies, water sprites, and mermaids, setting a lyrical, otherworldly tone for the sections that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76286,908,'Reading ease score: 80.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76287,520,'The despot of Broomsedge Cove by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the Great Smoky Mountains, it explores a tight-knit Appalachian community caught between religious fervor, frontier law, and personal vendettas. The story centers on Teck Jepson, a charismatic and overbearing zealot, the embattled constable Eli Strobe and his family, and Jake Baintree, a young man acquitted of a neighbor’s murder but still shadowed by suspicion.  The opening of the novel lingers on the wild grandeur of the Smokies and introduces Teck Jepson, who merges Old Testament drama with local life and harbors a relentless conviction that Jake Baintree killed Samuel Keale. After tense exchanges with constable Eli Strobe and Ben Bowles, and a glimpse of Bowles’s uneasy household, Jepson wanders into a gorge at night and finds a hat and coat hidden behind a split rock—garments he believes belonged to the missing Keale. At a river baptism soon after, Jepson publicly brandishes the items and denounces Baintree, prompting the parson to refuse baptism until a confession is made, as thunder and rain scatter the crowd. In the storm’s aftermath, Jepson shelters under a cliff with Eli Strobe’s daughters, Marcella and Isabel; their wary, lively talk reveals Marcella’s worry over her father’s reelection and his principled defense of the court’s verdict, while Jepson insists Eli’s stance will cost him votes. The section closes with hints of Baintree’s odd, subdued behavior since jail and the community’s simmering conflict over guilt, grace, and power. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76287,908,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76288,520,'"The city without Jews :  A novel of our time" by Hugo Bettauer is a novel written in the early 20th century. It imagines Vienna expelling all Jews and people of Jewish origin, and follows the political, economic, and cultural upheaval that ensues. Central figures include the hard-line Chancellor Dr. Karl Schwertfeger and ordinary Viennese such as Lotte Spineder and her lover Leo Strakosch, whose lives are torn by the new regime.  The opening of the novel depicts Parliament ramming through an anti-Jewish expulsion law under Schwertfeger’s incendiary speech, its swift passage, and the city’s raucous celebrations after the last trains depart. Short vignettes show immediate fallout: a politician discovers his son‑in‑law’s Jewish origins, artists despair (one commits suicide), sex workers fear losing their clientele, and some Christians convert in solidarity. Schwertfeger’s later briefing reveals grim realities—financial shortfalls, foreign takeovers, social dislocation, and families split by lineage rules—despite public euphoria. Part Two shifts to letters and episodes that chart Vienna’s decline: Lotte writes Leo in Paris of initial cheer turning to unemployment, cultural stagnation, and a collapsing currency; department stores struggle, cafés empty, banks retreat; and finally Leo returns incognito, rents a studio, and secretly reunites with Lotte in her family’s garden. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76288,908,'Reading ease score: 66.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76288,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76288,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76289,520,'"The Breath of Slander; or, Virtue Triumphs" by Ida Reade Allen is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the Pennsylvania mountains and nearby towns, it blends domestic romance with moral melodrama, centering on Norine Bright, her principled brother Jim, the wounded outsider Clinton Percival she nurses back to health, and country doctor Lester Conway, whose quiet devotion is sorely tried. Expect a story of love, reputation, and ambition, where gossip’s harm confronts steadfast character and virtue aims to prevail.  The opening of the novel follows a traveler who scoffs at a storm warning, is nearly killed crossing a mountain in a violent tempest, and collapses in a deserted hut, where Norine later discovers him and summons Dr. Conway. As Clinton Percival slowly recovers at the Brights’ cottage, Conway’s restrained affection for Norine meets a rival’s charm, while Jim proves a thoughtful, generous host. We learn the Brights’ history: disowned by their Virginia kin, they built a thriving small farm, and now seek to reconcile with their aging Aunt Darling; Jim posts Norine’s heartfelt letter. In town, Lettie Allan—Conway’s devoted helper—realizes he loves Norine and abruptly leaves for distant relatives rather than watch it unfold. Evenings bring fireside debates—Jim’s nature-rooted faith versus Clinton’s fatalism—while Clinton and Norine’s bond deepens through woodland walks, culminating in a tender, near-confession as he prepares to declare his love. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76289,908,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76289,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76289,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76289,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76290,520,'"Mutter!.." by Heinz Tovote is a novel written in the late 19th century. It explores the idealized and troubling force of motherhood through the passionate attachment of the law student Willy Braun to his youthful, elegant mother Anna, and the parallel, more tormented filial devotion of the painter Fritz Lautner. Moving between Berlin’s art world and family interiors, it introduces a circle of friends and relatives whose affections and ambitions hint at conflicts over love, duty, and selfhood.  The opening of the novel follows three friends on a lake outing, where Lautner’s cynical talk about “mother love” clashes with Willy’s reverence; we learn Lautner is illegitimate and deeply dependent on his own mother, which sharpens his bitterness. Back in Berlin, Willy encounters Anna—so young in bearing she is mistaken for his sister—and we see his almost worshipful bond with her contrasted with Lautner’s humble home and tender respect for his aging mother. A summer storm frames Willy’s trip to Charlottenburg for Anna’s birthday, where the household gathers: his disabled father Hermann, the booming Uncle Jack returned from America, the solemn sister-in-law Agnes, and the flirtatious Emmy Dempwolf who tries, unsuccessfully, to charm Willy. The section closes as the sculptor Reinhold Petri arrives late with pale roses, cementing the social tableau and the subtle tensions that will shape the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76290,908,'Reading ease score: 82.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76290,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76290,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76291,520,'"Kohotettu keihäs : Vapausrunoja" by Larin-Kyösti is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. The verses fuse Finland’s seasonal landscape with a fervent, patriotic call for freedom, reflecting the nation’s struggle for independence and its moral rebuilding. The voice exhorts citizens and soldiers, honors the fallen, condemns oppression and factionalism, and salutes kindred Estonians and notable cultural figures. The result is a rousing, national‑romantic lyric sequence rather than a narrative.  The opening of the collection moves from a nature‑driven calendar cycle to outright freedom poetry: first “Mensualia” personifies the seasons and each month from January to December, turning weather and harvest into emblems of endurance and renewal. It then pivots to martial and civic pieces that celebrate the lifting of “the raised spear,” depict solemn troops on the march, praise youth and the Civil Guard, call aid to Estonia, and hymn the white day of victory and the anniversary of independence. Interwoven are agrarian and craft voices (farmer, merchant, smith, soldier) that imagine rebuilding a just nation through work, law, and vigilance, alongside sharp denunciations of Bolshevism and internal betrayal. A striking vignette of a tower watchman who keeps sounding the alarm as his own home burns adds tragic heroism, while a New Year’s song satirizes political posturing. This portion closes by turning toward tributes, beginning with an ode to August Strindberg. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76291,908,'Reading ease score: 41.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76291,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76292,520,'"Päiväperhoja : Pieniä tarinoita" by Eino Leino is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. In brief, it gathers fables, parables, prose poems, and satirical sketches that range from Finnish folk life to antiquity and contemporary society. The pieces probe love, conscience, power, art, and national identity with a voice that moves between lyrical tenderness, moral irony, and sharp social critique.  The opening of this collection strings together compact vignettes: a pastor tries to wrest secret lore from a dying village witch for the sake of national heritage; an “old marquis” rises when death bells toll—an allegory of a nation’s revival; a hidden murderer prospers while an innocent man is condemned; a fallen customs clerk drifts into humble service; a peasant under Simo Hurtta’s rule chooses harsh loyalty with tragic reverberations; Alkibiades and a temple maiden miss each other through pride and misreading; and a forest cottage story turns into a stark, unseen catastrophe. A second run of prose miniatures meditates, in quick, lyrical strokes, on love, the soul, lost dreams, cheerfully roaming thought, the danger of seeking a self apart from love, the sea and the sun as lovers, the poet’s integrity, true worth versus cheap glitter, Truth and Lie, tidy “order” that kills ideas, and a bright morning of Lemminkäinen. The tone then shifts to essays and satire: a hymn to “tuhmuus” (complacent stupidity), a professor’s postprandial dream in which Homeros and other greats seek modern credentials, a warning against weary elders declaring the struggle “already done,” a crisp autumn walk debating Finland’s cultural season, a whispered train talk about politics, and a closing scene where Realists refit the Muse in reform dress and put her on a bicycle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76292,908,'Reading ease score: 50.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76293,520,'"The magnet: A romance" by Henry C. Rowland is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set aboard a Maine-anchored schooner-yacht, it centers on retired Captain Bell, his three daughters—Cécile, Paula, and Hermione—and their steadfast sailing-master, Christian Heldstrom, whose floating household is shadowed by an eccentric poet, Harold Applebo, in a yawl he trails like a “pilot-fish.” Flirtation, pride, and sudden tests of character entwine as the sisters draw suitors and the poet’s odd chivalry stirs both annoyance and curiosity.  The opening of the story introduces the yacht Shark at Shoal Harbour and sketches the family: choleric gourmand Captain Bell, disciplined “Uncle Chris” Heldstrom, coquettish Cécile, gentle Paula, and fiery Hermione. Huntington Wood, an old suitor, visits as the crew watches for the “Pilot-fish,” Applebo, who arrives in his yawl Daffodil; Bell recounts the poet’s whimsical resolve to follow them so he needn’t choose his own course. Wood learns Applebo is secretly devoted to a lady aboard, while Paula and Cécile trade impressions of the odd celebrity; a farcical failed vol-au-vent spurs Bell to vow a chase to shake the pursuer. At dawn, Hermione’s illicit shore shoot ends in a confrontation with a game-warden until Applebo intervenes, after which a prickly, revealing exchange shows his disdain for her poaching, his abstract approach to love, and a startling reaction to Heldstrom’s name, hinting at deeper ties as the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76293,908,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76293,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76293,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76293,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76294,520,'"Sparrows" by Marie Coolidge-Rask and Winifred Dunn is a novelization of a photoplay written in the early 20th century. Set on a sinister, isolated hog farm bordered by a deadly bog, it follows the brave orphan Mollie and the thoughtful boy Stephen (“Splutters”) as they endure the cruelty of the monstrous farmer Peter Grimes and his family, clinging to faith and each other. The story centers on child exploitation, survival, and the hope of rescue, with the sparrow motif underscoring divine care for the helpless.  The opening of Sparrows shows Mollie leading a desperate band of children in sending a kite “prayer” for rescue before we learn the farm’s grim setup and Grimes’s origins. Mollie and Stephen arrive through deceit—a lost guardian arrangement and a kidnapping mix-up—and quickly face brutality, including Grimes nearly drowning Stephen until Mollie intervenes. Banished to the barn loft, the children hide when visitors come, labor in the fields, and navigate the fence, bell, and bog that trap them. New arrivals—Cynthy and her baby brother Buddy—heighten the peril: Buddy’s arm is broken in Grimes’s careless return, and by morning the baby has mysteriously vanished, leaving Mollie to comfort Cynthy as they keep working and watch the treacherous swamp that surrounds them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76294,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76294,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76294,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76294,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76295,520,'"Notes from Calais base, and pictures of its many activities by C. E. Montague" is an illustrated historical account written in the World War I era. It portrays the British Army’s base operations around Calais, focusing on how troops are trained, wounded soldiers are cared for, and vast logistical systems—fuel and footwear among them—keep the front supplied.  The book first follows reinforcements through intensive finishing courses led by veterans fresh from the trenches: bayonet work, musketry, bombing, night exercises, sandbag-filling, Swedish drill, and rigorous gas-mask training, all captured alongside scenes of embarkation and movement. It then traces the wounded man’s journey from trench to advanced dressing-station, casualty clearing station, and base hospitals, highlighting innovations such as mono-rail trolley stretchers, specialist eye care with powerful magnets, fracture wards with slung beds, canal barges for gentle transport, and fully equipped Red Cross trains. Finally, it turns to the machinery of supply: depôts that manufacture, test, fill, and track petrol tins with French civilian labor; and a vast cobbler’s shop that sorts, rebuilds, and reissues thousands of boots daily through tightly organised, assembly-line repair—wasting nothing, even turning leather offcuts into laces and heels into fuel. Together the text and photographs offer a clear, practical portrait of the disciplined systems and human effort sustaining the army behind the lines. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76295,908,'Reading ease score: 63.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76295,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76295,657);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76296,520,'"Ralph Waldo Emerson, philosopher and seer :  an estimate of his character and…" by A. Bronson Alcott is a literary appreciation and memorial volume written in the late 19th century. Blending essay, biography, and commemorative verse, it offers a close, admiring portrait of Emerson’s mind and manners while reflecting on his influence in American letters and culture. The likely topic is Emerson’s character, genius, and artistic method, as seen by an intimate friend and fellow thinker.  At its heart is a long essay that presents Emerson as a rhapsodist—an inspired poet-moralist whose lectures and prose moved audiences through cadence, image, and ethical insight. Alcott praises Emerson’s originality, his shaping of the Lyceum, and his American voice; contrasts his temperate charity with Carlyle’s harsher polemic; and sketches his Concord life, country walks, and mosaic method of composition. The book then turns elegiac: a lyrical monody, naming Emerson “Ion,” mourns his passing while evoking the landscapes and friendships (with veiled nods to Thoreau) that nourished his song; and an ode by F. B. Sanborn places the poet-sage among the ancients, affirming the enduring music of his thought. Framed by a publishers’ preface and personal notes, the collection reads as a warm, authoritative tribute from those who knew him best. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76296,908,'Reading ease score: 65.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76297,520,'"The constitutional iniquity involved in all forms of the regulation of…" by Mrs. Josephine E. Butler is a reformist political-legal pamphlet written in the late 19th century, during the Victorian era. The work argues that state systems for regulating prostitution are unconstitutional, unjust, and morally corrupting, targeting especially policies like the Contagious Diseases Acts.  The pamphlet opens by stressing the moral stakes, then concentrates on constitutional law. Drawing on authorities such as Sheldon Amos, Mittermayer, Montesquieu, and Lieber, it outlines the essential safeguards of fair criminal justice—no intimidation or compelled self-incrimination, presumption of innocence, clear indictment, public accusatory procedure, right to counsel, evidence-based verdicts, proportional punishment, and accusations not initiated by the Executive—and shows how regulation regimes violate each one. Butler details coercive “voluntary submission,” secret tribunals, punishment on suspicion by police, executive accusations without reasons, repeated arbitrary imprisonment, and the near impossibility of redress. She identifies forced medical examinations of women as the system’s core abuse and cites Sir Hardinge Giffard’s legal opinion that such bodily searches for evidence are contrary to English law and the fundamental protection of the person. The book warns that these measures erode liberty and justice for all, and it calls citizens to resist and abolish such laws. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76297,908,'Reading ease score: 40.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76298,520,'"The history of the psychoanalytic movement" by Sigmund Freud is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It charts the birth and growth of psychoanalysis, outlines its core ideas and methods, and narrates its spread, institutionalization, and conflicts—especially Freud’s defenses of the theory against critics and former allies.  The opening of the work presents Freud’s own role in creating psychoanalysis, acknowledging Breuer’s “cathartic method” while marking his departures—free association, the centrality of resistance and transference, and the theory of repression. He recounts how he moved from hypnosis to analysis, from a discarded “seduction theory” to infantile sexuality and psychic reality, and how dream interpretation became his anchor during years of isolation. The narrative then widens to the formation of the early Vienna circle, the crucial alliance with the Zürich clinic (Bleuler, Jung), and the international spread to America with supportive figures like Putnam, Brill, and Jones. Freud sketches the founding of journals and societies and the extension of analytic thinking to myth, literature, and religion. He explains his avoidance of polemics, yet describes organizing the International Psychoanalytic Association and the early congresses. This opening section culminates in the first major schism, detailing Adler’s break and “Individual Psychology,” which Freud criticizes for rejecting repression and sexual motivation, and it foreshadows a second rupture to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76298,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_History_of_the_Psychoanalytic_Movement',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76298,908,'Reading ease score: 47.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76298,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76298,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76299,520,'"A dictionary of men''s wear" by William Henry Baker is a trade reference dictionary written in the early 20th century. It compiles the terminology of men’s apparel and allied trades—covering fabrics, tailoring, shoemaking, hats, haberdashery, and uniforms—mixing precise definitions with shop slang and practical notes. Aimed at clothiers, tailors, manufacturers, and sellers, it promises an engaging, useful lexicon with appendices on correct dress and military attire.  The opening of the dictionary presents a playful epigraph, a sweeping dedication to the clothing trades, and an explanatory preface outlining its origins in a smaller “Clothes Dictionary,” its aim to be comprehensive yet readable, and its choice of simplified spelling and non-pronouncing format to save space. The author stresses practicality over pedantry, notes incomplete coverage is inevitable, and lists extensive authorities (encyclopedias, trade journals, and U.S. uniform regulations), followed by personal acknowledgments. The alphabetical entries then begin, running from A into early C, defining garments, textiles, processes, and tools (from alpaca and aiguillette to back stitch and basket weave), along with retail slang, sports gear, and detailed military uniform notes—delivered in a brisk, sometimes witty tone. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76299,908,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76299,676);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76299,697);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76300,520,'"Lion yarn book :  Describing latest creations in worsted work by Lion Brand Yarn" is a craft pattern booklet and needlework instruction manual produced in the early 20th century. It focuses on knitting and crochet projects, offering designs and techniques for garments and accessories made in worsted and related yarns.  The book compiles step-by-step directions for a wide range of projects for women, men, children, and babies: sweaters and pullovers (including ruffled, popcorn-stitch, tuxedo, and Norfolk styles), matching tams and caps, scarves and cloaks, men’s coat sweaters and a crocheted vest, children’s golf hose, and extensive baby wear and linens (sacques, bonnets, bands, carriage cover, and pillow). Many designs use filet crochet with charted motifs and borders, alongside stitch guides such as the popcorn and star stitches and picot/scalloped edgings. Each pattern specifies materials, needle or hook sizes, cast-ons, shaping and finishing, with occasional size notes and accessories like belts, cuffs, tassels, buttons, and fringes; the volume concludes with a brief promotional overview of available yarn lines. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76300,908,'Reading ease score: 96.8 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76300,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76300,680);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58386,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lion_Brand_Yarns');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76301,520,'"The Constitution Violated" by Josephine Elizabeth Grey Butler is a political essay written in the late 19th century. It denounces the British Contagious Diseases Acts as a fundamental breach of constitutional liberties—especially Magna Carta, habeas corpus, and trial by jury—and warns that state regulation of prostitution endangers civil freedom and public morality. Addressed to working men and women, it portrays the Acts as an assault on national rights that especially imperils poor and unprotected women.  The opening of the essay declares its aim to rouse the country by proving the Acts unconstitutional, setting aside medical arguments and focusing on core constitutional principles. It centers on Magna Carta’s protections—particularly the clauses safeguarding liberty, property, and trial by jury—arguing that forced bodily examinations amount to unlawful “destruction,” and it illustrates England’s historic jealousy of such violations. The author clarifies that the Acts apply to civilians (not the army or navy) while placing civil districts under the Admiralty and War Office; she outlines how a police superintendent’s oath and a magistrate’s order can subject a woman to repeated examinations, detention, hospital confinement, and effective outlawry without a jury, with a single policeman’s testimony often sufficing. She argues this is no “minor case,” since a woman’s honor, liberty, and livelihood are at stake, and she condemns coercive “voluntary submissions” and summary procedures that invert the Habeas Corpus spirit. Drawing on authorities like Coke, Blackstone, and Creasy—and paralleling a 1736 Lords debate on anti-smuggling powers—she warns against informers, punishment of mere “intent,” and executive overreach. The section closes by invoking Chatham’s moral appeal, contrasting past constitutional vigilance with recent parliamentary silence as the Acts elevate vice into a regulated system. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76301,908,'Reading ease score: 52.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76302,520,'"French morality, under the regulation system" by Julie-Victoire Daubié is a social reform treatise written in the late 19th century. It condemns the state “regulation” of prostitution, arguing that police-tolerated brothels, legal privileges for men, and economic desperation for women together entrench exploitation and corrode society. Drawing on research, official reports, legal cases, and historical comparison, it urges equal legal responsibility for men, better wages and protections for women, firm action against procuring and public solicitation, and humane refuges for those seeking to leave prostitution.  The opening of the work frames the issue through a preface and a letter calling on British lawmakers to reject regulationism and pursue just, gender-neutral laws, then launches into a stark analysis of how poverty, low wages, ignorance, and seduction funnel girls and women into both registered and clandestine prostitution. It details the capitalized business of brothel-keeping, police complicity, and the contrast between destitute street women and lavishly kept courtesans, even extending the critique to colonial Algeria. The next section shows many “penitent” women’s shame and maternal devotion, surveys historic Church- and state-backed refuges, and argues that charity alone is inadequate without curbing male profligacy. A legal survey contrasts ancient and medieval severity toward panders and male clients with modern France’s protection of male debauchees and persecution of women, illustrating hypocrisy through courtroom examples and annulled debts to mistresses. Finally, the early pages of a chapter on male prostitution indict students, officials, and soldiers—linking student seduction and abandonment, an ex-official’s public scandals, and military marriage restrictions and court leniency—to show how institutional practices normalize and spread vice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76302,908,'Reading ease score: 47.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76302,690);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76302,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76302,693);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76302,694);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76303,520,'"Sämtliche Werke 18 : Aus einem Totenhause" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky is a semi-autobiographical novel written in the mid-19th century. It depicts life inside a Siberian penal colony through the eyes of Alexander Petrovich Goryanchikov, a nobleman convicted of killing his wife, and blends stark observation with deep psychological insight. The focus is on daily routines, punishments, the prison economy, and the surprising mix of brutality and human feeling among convicts.  The opening of the work begins with an editor’s meditation on Siberia’s future and a short preface locating the author’s exile, then frames the story through a narrator who meets the reclusive Goryanchikov in a provincial town; after Goryanchikov’s death, the narrator finds and presents his prison notes. Those notes first map the “Ostrogg”: its palisades, barracks, roll calls, guards, and the segregated classes of inmates with their distinctive clothing and shaved heads. Goryanchikov records the convicts’ social code—pride, touchiness, intrigue, and a conspicuous lack of overt remorse—illustrated by episodes like a fearless inmate facing punishment and a chilling father-murderer who speaks lightly of his crime. He argues that the worst torment is not the physical labor but enforced communal living and the humiliating futility of compelled work, while survival depends on private crafts, clandestine trade and smuggling, and small alms from townsfolk. Early scenes sketch winter routines, coarse food, the stifling barracks, and the abrasive, bantering camaraderie that defines everyday life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76303,908,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76303,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76303,650);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76303,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76304,520,'"Secrets of scene painting and stage effects by Will Goldston" is a practical guidebook on theatrical scenography and stagecraft written in the early 20th century. Aimed especially at amateurs and small companies, it explains how to plan, paint, build, rig, and light scenery, and how to create convincing stage effects.  The book opens by stressing scenery’s role in realism, offers a brief history of staging from the Greeks to movable scenery, and then provides step‑by‑step instruction on materials (flax canvas, sizing, distemper paints), brushes, priming, sketching, mixing colors for light and shadow, and safe fireproofing. It teaches scaling a sketch to full size, simple rules of perspective for interiors and streets, and practical design choices for cottages, halls, and landscapes, including stenciling and color schemes. Clear guidance follows on handling scenery—back cloths, flats, braces, and wings—plus building a portable platform and stage with curtain and rigging. Lighting with limelight and gels is outlined, and a large section details sound and weather effects: horses’ hoofbeats, thunder sheets, rain boxes, wind machines, snow cloths, rippling water, and compact mechanical devices for cinemas. Throughout, it emphasizes broad, stage-true effects, careful timing, and efficient backstage practice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76304,908,'Reading ease score: 64.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76304,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76304,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76305,520,'"The Catholic Church and conversion" by G. K. Chesterton is a religious apologetic treatise written in the early 20th century. It contends that Catholicism appears in the modern world as a fresh, disruptive reality rather than a mere survival, and examines conversion as the Church’s distinctive mark. Chesterton clears away popular anti-Catholic myths, contrasts national loyalties with the Church’s universal claim, and maps the inner journey from curiosity to resistance to assent.  The opening of the treatise begins with an editor’s note stressing how converts, coming from every sort of background and by innumerable paths, powerfully witness to the Faith’s reality. Chesterton then argues that Catholicism functions today like a “new religion,” a living force that attracts where other traditions have grown stale; the Church’s true stamp is conversion, not mere tradition. He dismisses stock slanders (about Scripture, priests, and Jesuits), contrasts narrow patriotism with the Church’s prior and wider human solidarity, and identifies the real hurdles as fear of the Faith’s demanding virtues—especially the honesty and responsibility of confession—rather than the vices others allege. He outlines three stages of conversion (defending the Church from injustice, discovering its ideas, then trying to flee the final step) and finally flips the perspective: the Church is not one sect among many but the vast cathedral that contains them, while modern movements are partial exaggerations of Catholic truths; conversion, he insists, enlarges thought and freedom rather than confining them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76305,908,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76306,520,'"Kleuterboekje by Anna Sutorius" is an illustrated collection of children’s verses written in the early 20th century. The book offers gentle, rhymed snapshots of everyday family life, with playful scenes and mild moral hints aimed at very young readers.  The poems move through small domestic moments: a sister coveting her brother’s porridge, two boys playing horse until their game ends in a quarrel and broken gear, a girl daydreaming of being a gardener and wishing to water the flowers, and a sulky boy who skipped breakfast. Other pieces show a child soothed to sleep on mother’s lap, a little girl fiercely loyal to a battered teddy bear, a stubborn Wies who resists an outing but soon makes amends, and a calm bedtime vignette where the clock strikes eight and lights go out. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76306,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76306,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76306,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76307,520,'"L''heure décisive" by Henri Ardel is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in Parisian salons and modest apartments, it follows Denise Muriel, a gifted young singer from a ruined bourgeois family, as she weighs the perilous allure of the theater against her pride, independence, and need to support her own. Her magnetism captivates the refined clubman Bertrand d’Astyèves, while a passionate composer and a clear‑sighted woman of letters recognize her rare talent and character.  The opening of the novel presents a brilliant salon at Mme Arnales’s, where Denise debuts Vanore’s Poèmes sylvestres and stuns a fashionable audience; Bertrand, struck by her voice and reserve, escorts her briefly to the buffet and learns hints of her reluctance to pursue the stage. Denise, paid discreetly and eager to escape the air of condescension, returns home to a cramped flat, where her bitter mother, easygoing father, and schoolboy brother reveal a family strained by past ruin and present economies; alone on her balcony, she longs for love yet vows to keep her integrity. At the start of the next scene, Bertrand visits the salon of Mme Claude Champdray, Denise’s loyal friend, hoping to see her; Denise arrives, and in a restrained, incisive exchange she shows a lucid, skeptical spirit, sympathy for the struggling, and a stubborn independence that complicates everyone’s designs for her future. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76307,908,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76307,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76307,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76308,520,'"Fetzen : Aus der abenteuerlichen Chronika eines Überflüssigen" by Alexander Weicker is a novel written in the early 20th century. It’s a satirical, aphorism-laced chronicle of a young man’s coming‑of‑age, framed as an editor publishing the left-behind diary of a friend. The protagonist Jappes moves from rough rural childhood into the university and a temptations-filled city, crossing paths with a worldly neighbor and a vulnerable girl he helps at a pawnshop. The tone blends irreverent humor with sharp social critique of academia, morality, and desire.  The opening of the book sets a mischievous editorial frame: the narrator receives his dead friend’s chaotic manuscript (and a live toad) and resolves to publish the student chronicle. We then meet Jappes—beaten into toughness by school and a pious mother—who enters university, prowls the city, and writes witty, self-mocking diary notes. He rents a shabby room from the Wertheims, roams lecture halls, and, short of money, pawns a chess set before giving the proceeds to a girl buying a funeral wreath for her mother. Two key relationships emerge: Reinette (Amourette), a coquettish neighbor who lures and bickers with him, and Pepy, the grateful pawnshop girl who later confides she is illegitimate and draws from Jappes cynical musings on marriage, fathers, and the “soul.” Interludes skewer a pompous host and a parade of professors, while the city teems with student types and sexual bravado. The section closes with Jappes taking Pepy to Lohengrin—torn between genuine feeling and abrasive irony—then needling her in a café with his mocking talk of love and marriage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76308,908,'Reading ease score: 74.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76308,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76308,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76308,641);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58392,'lb.wikipedia','https://lb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Weicker');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76309,520,'"Fenn Kaß :  Der Roman eines Erlösten" by Batty Weber is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a gifted village boy from Luxembourg, Fenn Kaß, as he leaves his rural Catholic world for a city seminary, torn between a priestly path and his fascination with machines. Around him move classmates Heine “Putty” Heinen and Fritz Lampert, a strict social order, and clergy who test and shape him, painting a portrait of faith, class, and coming-of-age in a borderland community. It promises a humane, gently ironic study of vocation, friendship, and the pull between tradition and modern ambition.  The opening of the novel lingers over the Luxembourg countryside, the village of Wiesing, and its faded prosperity before turning to Fenn, a Küster’s son, who hauls wood, secretly reads about steam engines, and prepares to depart for the Gymnasium and church-run boarding school. We meet the kindly Pfarrer Reining and his sister Gretchen, the practical teacher Braun and his daughter Marjänni, and Fenn’s two friends: dreamy, anxious Putty, and entitled Fritz from a declining farm family. An evening of small-town life unfolds—cards, bells, and a rough supper at Lampert’s—hinting at debts, pride, and social tensions. Fenn’s visit to the cobbler Pichert frames his inner conflict: priesthood for stability versus a maker’s urge to build machines. At dawn the boys ride to the city with the taciturn farmhand Wöllem, encounter a skeptical innkeeper and street taunts, and enter the Konvikt under the ink-splashed gaze of a plaster guardian angel. A fiery, domineering director receives them, alternately thundering about moral peril and cooing paternal assurances, while the mothers and fathers hover between awe and worry. The section closes with dorm assignments and a quiet moment in the park, where Fenn’s mother tries to slip him a small coin—an intimate gesture at the threshold of his new life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76309,908,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76309,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76309,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76310,520,'"Cindrulino by L. Milho" is an illustrated children’s fairy-tale retelling in Esperanto, likely written in the early 20th century. Adapted from an English story, it recounts the classic Cinderella tale, focusing on kindness, patience, and forgiveness as virtues that triumph over envy and cruelty.  The story follows a gentle girl mistreated by her older stepsisters, who force her to toil and mockingly call her Cindrulino. When a royal ball is announced, her fairy godmother appears, transforming a pumpkin, a rat, and mice into a carriage, coachman, and footmen, and her rags into a splendid gown with glass slippers, warning her to return before midnight. She captivates the prince at several balls, but on the third night she flees at the stroke of twelve, losing a slipper. The prince vows to marry the one whom the slipper fits; after the stepsisters fail, it fits Cindrulino, who produces the matching shoe. Revealed and restored, she marries the prince, forgives her sisters, becomes a kind queen, and the famous glass slippers are kept as treasured tokens of her story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76310,908,'Reading ease score: 53.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76311,520,'"The book of the cat" by Frances Simpson is an illustrated compendium for cat fanciers written in the early 20th century. It explores the history, breeds, care, exhibiting, and anatomy of domestic cats, supported by many plates and photographs. Aimed at enthusiasts and breeders, it blends practical guidance with cultural background and profiles of notable catteries and clubs.  The opening of the work presents extensive contents and plate lists, followed by an introduction in which Simpson outlines her goal of a readable, experience-based handbook, acknowledges expert contributors (from veterinary care to foreign and American cats, Maine cats, and anatomy), and quotes Harrison Weir’s warm endorsement. Chapter I, “Cats of the Past,” surveys origin myths and the cat’s prominence in ancient Egypt (Pasht, Bubastes, mummification), notes scattered classical references, and contrasts medieval superstition and cruelty with later esteem from writers, artists, and heraldry; it also touches on folklore, nursery rhymes, and art, highlighting Madame Ronner, Eugène Lambert, and Louis Wain. At the start of Chapter II, the text lists cat names across languages, revisits beliefs like “nine lives” with anecdotes of feline endurance and homing, emphasizes the cat’s usefulness in public institutions, mentions the cats’-meat trade and comic asides (census and ping-pong cat), and introduces the organized fancy with a roll of clubs culminating in the National Cat Club’s leadership and aims. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76311,908,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76311,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76311,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76311,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76312,520,'"Viimeinen tsaaritar : Venäjän keisarinnan Aleksandran tarina" by Vladimir Poliakoff is a historical biography written in the early 20th century. It portrays the life of Empress Alexandra Feodorovna, emphasizing her consuming love for Nicholas II, the sway of Rasputin, and how private devotion and family tragedy—especially hemophilia—shaped public catastrophe and the Romanov downfall. The work blends character study with political context, drawing on letters, diaries, and eyewitness recollections.  The opening of this biography begins with a vivid scene in a small Paris restaurant, where the narrator encounters an émigré photographer and, through an eerie vision and surviving negatives, evokes Rasputin’s unsettling presence and paradoxical power. It then advances a central thesis: the form Russia’s revolution took was profoundly molded by the intense bond between Alexandra and Nicholas, illustrated through tender wartime letters and memories reaching back to their youth. The narrative sketches Alexandra’s background as “Sunny,” her strict upbringing, isolation, and the hereditary shadow of hemophilia that would bind her to Rasputin’s influence. It also paints “Nicky” as an unexceptional but affectionate man, and recounts their courtship and engagement at Coburg via Nicholas’s diary, before shifting to Windsor under Queen Victoria’s watch, where daily entries capture the couple’s growing intimacy amid punctilious court routine. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76312,908,'Reading ease score: 24.0 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76312,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76312,664);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76312,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76312,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76313,520,'Voimatonta väkeä by Aino Malmberg is a collection of life sketches and short stories written in the early 20th century. Drawn from real people and situations, the pieces dwell on fate, moral choice, and the quiet heroism or frailty of ordinary lives, often among Finns abroad. Expect intimate, observational portraits—of love''s detours, community bonds, and the pull of home—told with warmth and clear-eyed restraint.  The opening of the book sets out its method in a foreword: the “strong” draw life’s outlines, while the “powerless” supply light, shade, and color—these are true-life sketches, sometimes lightly altered. The first story follows Ella, a gifted London typist entangled with a married editor, who leaves for New York, chooses motherhood on her own terms, and finds her deepest, enduring attachment in her son John; a parallel thread introduces the reserved civil servant Stuart Lane, whose late-awakening love for Judith and a hinted, missed connection with Ella underscore the caprice of fate. Next comes a lively essay on Finns in London, contrasting West End pretensions with East End seafaring grit, praising the merimieskirkko, recounting a humorous dignitary’s visit, and sketching “Janne,” a tireless fixer who keeps his community afloat. The section closes by beginning a new vignette in Honolulu, where the house “Hale Makani” and its keepers, Polly and Ruth, promise yet another far-flung human tableau. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76313,908,'Reading ease score: 40.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76314,520,'"Genius rewarded :  The story of the sewing machine by John Scott" is a historical account and industrial chronicle written in the late 19th century. The book explains how a practical sewing machine emerged from a long line of attempts, centers on Isaac Merritt Singer’s improvements and business acumen, and presents the Singer Manufacturing Company as a global force; its likely topic is the invention’s development, commercialization, and social impact on domestic life and women’s work.  The narrative opens with Singer’s breakthrough—tightening a tension screw during a midnight trial in Boston—then surveys earlier, less successful efforts and contends that Walter Hunt originated key principles later patented by Elias Howe. It contrasts Howe’s impractical early design with Singer’s durable features, and recounts legal battles, Edward Clark’s partnership, and the formation of a powerful licensing “combination.” The middle chapters chart explosive growth in sales and a worldwide agency system, highlighting self-made managers and far‑reaching markets. A vivid tour of the Elizabeth, New Jersey factory follows, detailing foundries, forging, japanning, ornamenting, assembling, rigorous inspections, the buttonhole and needle departments, and large‑scale logistics by rail and steamer, alongside notes on worker welfare. The final chapter argues why the machines prevailed—reliability, precision, ease of use, and consistent testing—illustrated by relief purchases after the Chicago fire and by factory piecework gains, and it closes by framing the sewing machine as a transformative boon to homes and industry alike. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76314,908,'Reading ease score: 63.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76314,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76314,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76314,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76314,695);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76315,520,'"Az örök film : Müncheni regény" by Mária Berde is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in Munich’s Schwabing artists’ quarter, it follows the Hungarian student Etelka, her admirer Aladár, and a vivid circle of painters, designers, poets, and expatriates orbiting the Biedermann boardinghouse. The story probes the allure and hazards of bohemian life, where play-acting, artistic ambition, and social masquerade blur into everyday existence.  The beginning of the novel introduces a bright, unseasonal Munich day, where Etelka meets the iparművésznő Karla at the museum and becomes intrigued by a new social world. Aladár pursues entry to a Biedermann penzió fête via the scruffy painter Bukovina, who engineers a fake police raid to outwit a dance ban, revealing a motley crowd: the commanding Ingert, the magnetic Miss Northon, and other eccentrics whirling through smoky rooms improvised from former stables. A later coffee gathering welcomes Zdenka, a naive craftswoman from Prague who is mocked for her accent until Aladár gallantly intervenes; the celebrated poet Lilienthal drops in, while an earnest student-poet, Zwirn, courts notice with verses. The group spills to the intimate Bohém café, where wall-scribbled modernisms frame more dancing and self-display; Karla meets the sober photographer Franci, whose cool critique hints at Schwabing’s tendency to intoxicate, distract, and sometimes undo the young who drift into its orbit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76315,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76315,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76316,520,'"Travels and discoveries in North and Central Africa, Vol. 1 (of 5) : being…" by Henry Barth is an expedition journal and geographical-ethnographic account written in the mid-19th century. It charts a British-sponsored journey from the Mediterranean coast into the Sahara and Central Africa, blending routes, maps, natural history, and close observations of Arab, Berber, and Black African societies. The work addresses exploration goals (notably the Niger–Bénué system), antiquities, and the politics of slavery and Islam in the region. It will appeal to readers interested in rigorous travel narrative, early scientific fieldwork, and the cultural and political textures of the Sahara’s borderlands.  The opening of the book sets out Barth’s enlistment in the British mission led by James Richardson, his reasons for joining, the government’s aims (exploration and anti–slave-trade diplomacy), and practical choices such as traveling armed, carrying a boat, and once adopting a Muslim guise for safety. The Preface distinguishes foreign slave-trading from domestic slavery, explains Barth’s decision to witness a slave-raiding campaign to report it accurately, and lays out scientific goals, mapping methods, and his system for spelling African names. It sketches the vast scope of travel and peoples encountered and acknowledges collaborators, maps, and illustrations. Chapter I then narrates the journey from Tunis to Tripoli via coastal towns, a grueling sail across the Lesser Syrtis and the Djerba channels, and an overland caravan by Lake Bibán and Zuwara to the capital. At the start of Chapter II, while awaiting equipment, Barth and Overweg make a preliminary excursion into the mountain belt south of Tripoli, describing plantations, wadis, Roman ruins (notably the Enshéd e’ Sufét sepulchre), Berber villages, geology, springs, and the hardships of wind, cold, and uncertain paths under Ottoman oversight. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76316,908,'Reading ease score: 60.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76316,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76316,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76316,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76317,520,'"Travels and discoveries in North and Central Africa, Vol. 2 (of 5) :  being…." by Henry Barth is a travel journal and geographical-ethnographic account written in the mid-19th century. It chronicles a British-backed expedition across the Sahara into Hausaland, Bornu, and the Lake Chad basin, interweaving route-maps with vivid notes on politics, trade, languages, and daily life. Expect meticulous day-by-day observations of caravans, markets, landscapes, and negotiations with Tuareg, Hausa, and Fulani authorities amid conflict and shifting alliances.  The opening of the volume finds Barth parting from both his fellow travellers and the Tuareg chief Ánnur, then joining a salt-caravan toward Kanó under the care of Ánnur’s brother, Elaiji. He hires the capable Gajére, records wells, villages, trees, and camp-life, and briefly separates from Overweg, who heads to Tasáwa. Summoned by messengers to return to Zínder, Barth rides to Tasáwa instead, consults allies, visits Ánnur’s estate, surveys the bustling market and dye-pits, and sends a firm letter refusing recall. Moving on via Gazáwa—its stockade, markets, and warlike mood laid bare—he crosses a desolated belt marked by the ruins of Dánkama before reaching the outskirts of Kátsena. There, after gifts and flattery, the governor detains him as a “guest,” installs him with supplies, and signals an intent to control his movements, raising Barth’s concern he may be forwarded to Sókoto. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76317,908,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76317,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76317,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76318,520,'"Travels and discoveries in North and Central Africa, Vol. 3 (of 5) :  being…." by Henry Barth is a travel narrative and geographical account written in the mid-19th century. Centered on the Bornu–Lake Chad region, it blends route diaries with ethnography, climate notes, and political observation as the expedition pushes from Kúkawa toward Kanem and Bagírmi. Expect close descriptions of landscapes, rivers, crops, and wildlife, alongside court ceremonies, local markets, and the tense logistics of moving with armed escorts.  The opening of the volume moves from front matter and a detailed contents list into a first‑person chronicle of the rainy season in Kúkawa, where the narrator struggles with illness, sells merchandise to fund the mission, and records rains, crops, insects, and an elaborate ʿId festival. He frames the journey within regional power shifts—Bornu’s anxieties about the Turks in Fezzán, turmoil in Sokoto, and conflict in Wadai—and explains why he must join the marauding Welád Slimán to reach Kanem and the eastern shores of Lake Chad. After receiving a strong horse from the vizier, he and his colleague Overweg set out through fields and ponds to Yó and the Komadugu, cross on frail calabash rafts, and enter insecure country where their Arab companions plunder herders and travelers. The narrative interweaves natural history and geography—salt making, natron pools, grass grains, and cotton—with vivid scenes: the fetid town of Yó, the poor village of Ngégimi, and a majestic herd of ninety‑six elephants near the lake. It closes this opening stretch with the push beyond Berí through salt-laced lagoons, a dangerous bog incident, and an encampment by fresh water on the way deeper into Kanem. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76318,908,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76318,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76318,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76319,520,'"Travels and discoveries in North and Central Africa, Vol. 4 (of 5) :  being…." by Henry Barth is a travel journal written in the mid-19th century. This volume charts a westward expedition across the Sahel from Bornu toward the Sokoto empire, the middle Niger, and ultimately Timbuktu, blending route-mapping with rich notes on peoples, politics, trade, and landscape. Readers can expect first-hand observations of rivers, markets, and frontier towns, alongside encounters with local rulers and Tuareg clans.  The opening of the volume explains how the death of the author’s colleague led him to abandon a return to Kanem and the northeast of Lake Chad and instead aim for the Niger and Timbuktu via Sokoto. After securing a treaty in Bornu, coping with tight funds, and assembling a lean caravan of trusted servants, two freed boys, and an Arab broker, he leaves Kukawa and moves through Koyam and Manga, recording cold nights, busy wells, farms, and shifting sands. He lingers over the Komadugu’s floodplain—its backwaters, wildlife, and the ruins of the old capital Ghasr‑éggomo—then crosses the river at Zengiri and detours into Bedde country, where swamps, cotton plots, and walled towns bring both hospitality and theft. Turning into the hilly, little-known province of Múniyó, he describes a dazzling natron lake near Búne, a palm grove at Túnguré, and cultivated valleys hemmed by granite ridges. The section closes with his arrival at Gúre and a first look at the powerful governor’s fortified residence, revenues, and tax system as he prepares for an audience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76319,908,'Reading ease score: 57.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76319,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76319,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76320,520,'"Travels and discoveries in North and Central Africa, Vol. 5 (of 5) :  being…." by Henry Barth is a travel narrative and geographical account written in the mid-19th century. This final volume likely continues an overland expedition across the Sahara and along the Niger, centered on Timbuktu and the middle Niger. It combines field diary with analysis of river hydrology, commerce, and local politics, especially among Tuareg, Fulani, and Arab merchant factions. Expect meticulous notes on caravan trade, materials culture, and the practical realities of river and desert travel.  The opening of the volume finds the narrator in Timbuktu at the start of a new year, eager to depart but repeatedly delayed by illness, intrigue, and the anomalous high water of the Niger. He records daily life with his protector Sheikh El Bakáy, debates on religion, a sudden fever, and then offers a substantive explanation of the Niger’s seasonal rise and its effects around Timbuktu. He sketches the city’s economy—little manufacturing, heavy reliance on river-borne staples, and far-reaching trade in gold, salt from Taödénni, and kóla nuts—while noting European goods arriving via Morocco and Ghadámes. As February advances, tensions mount: Tuareg–Fulani frictions, the arrival of powerful Fulani envoys, the coming of El Bakáy’s elder brother, and a tightening political vise culminate in a tense night of armed vigilance and appeals to allied Tuareg groups, with departure still uncertain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76320,908,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76320,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76320,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76321,520,'"Der wilde Garten" by Grete von Urbanitzky is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows the devoted teacher Fräulein Dr. Hanna Südekum as she tries to guide adolescent girls—especially Gertrud—through awakening, rebellion, and the constraints and blind spots of adult society while confronting her own loneliness. Parallel strands with a sensitive boy she tutors and a magnetic sculptor who unsettles a bourgeois couple widen the story into a study of desire, authority, and modernity.  The opening of the novel shows Hanna in her modest room comforting Gertrud, whose mother has torn up a secret notebook of treasured quotations, and recalls how Hanna first won the troubled girl’s trust after a schoolyard clash. Three years pass: Hanna’s life is wholly bound to the girls’ school; she mistrusts parents’ evasions, tutors a boy (Erwin) who idolizes a powerful statesman, and is disturbed when a young couple she knows return entranced by the free-spirited sculptor Alexandra. As puberty transforms her class—bringing giggles, panic, and a classmate’s death from illness—an anonymous report leads Hanna and a colleague to a night club, where they find a pupil with an actor and then heading to a hotel, a shock compounded when Hanna later glimpses her married friend in an intimate night scene. She struggles to teach amid the girls’ new obsessions, grows painfully distant from Gertrud, and suffers a private crisis about aging and solitude; the section closes with another student, Grete, raging at adult lies and at books that ignore girls’ inner battles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76321,908,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76321,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76321,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76322,520,'"The Kiltartan wonder book" by Lady Gregory is a collection of Irish folk tales written in the early 20th century. Drawn from the Kiltartan oral tradition and told in a chatty, fireside voice, these wonder tales brim with enchantments, quests, giants, clever girls and foolish boys, and animals that speak or save the day. Readers meet a stream of different heroes—a simple prince on a talking mule, the bewitching Beswarragal, the Fish’s son, Shawneen, and others—in self‑contained episodes rich with magic objects, tests, and trickery.  The opening of this collection strings together brisk, storyteller-led tales: a “Fool” prince chases a singing bird, rides a miraculous mule, wins a king’s daughter, and breaks the mule’s enchantment; Beswarragal, a swan‑maiden, is lost and found through trials, a magic horse, and a fight with the Queen of the Black Wood; the Fish’s son, aided by a white hound and a hawk, slays Croagcill to free a princess. Shawneen gains giant‑won treasures, kills a dragon in the Black Duke’s armor, dies to a hag, and is revived by his brother Shamus; a man marries a mermaid who later returns to the sea, leaving a child and a pot of gold; a loyal Bullockeen guides a boy through battles with red, white, and green bulls before dying and gifting him great strength. Further brief pieces showcase riddling wit and conditions (King Solomon), the blessing‑and‑curse moral of sharing with a robin (and finding crocks of gold), a thread‑led rescue from an enchanted killer, a hare‑witch saved from black hounds, and a foolish wife who blunders into riches; the last fragment begins a visit to tiny “Danes” in a fairy fort before the excerpt cuts off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76322,908,'Reading ease score: 90.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76323,520,'"Saint Joan: a Chronicle Play in Six Scenes and an Epilogue" by Bernard Shaw is a play written in the early 20th century. It dramatizes the rise of Joan of Arc, her battlefield leadership and coronation campaign, and her prosecution by church and state, probing the collision between visionary conscience and institutional authority.  The opening of the work is a substantial preface that reinterprets Joan as a sane, shrewd, and practical visionary whose “voices” reflect an intense imaginative faculty rather than madness. It argues that she was destroyed less for witchcraft than for her presumptuous independence and the threat she posed to entrenched powers, while noting that her trial was legally careful by medieval standards yet morally horrific in outcome. The preface critiques earlier portrayals (from Shakespeare and Schiller to Voltaire, Mark Twain, and Anatole France), rejects melodramatic villainy, and reframes the conflict as tragedy born of normal people acting under powerful institutions. It surveys tensions between nationalism and a universal Church, genius and discipline, and medieval and modern forms of intolerance. Finally, it explains the play’s dramatic method—historical compression, emphasis on the medieval atmosphere, and the choice to portray figures like Cauchon, Lemaître, and Warwick as serious exponents of their systems rather than stock antagonists. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76323,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Joan_(play)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76323,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76323,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76323,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76323,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76324,520,'"The blight of Asia :  An account of the systematic extermination of Christian…. by George Horton is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It indicts Ottoman and later Turkish authorities for organized violence against Christian populations—Armenians and Greeks in particular—culminating in the destruction of Smyrna, while also criticizing the complicity and silence of the Great Powers. Framed by the author’s long service in the Near East, it combines eyewitness reporting, quoted testimonies, and polemical argument to portray a deliberate program of extermination and its geopolitical enablers.  The opening of the work sets the tone with a foreword condemning Western inaction, followed by an introduction in which the former U.S. consul explains his aims and firsthand vantage—from the Young Turk revolution through the Smyrna fire. Early chapters list major massacres from the 19th century, quote Gladstone’s and others’ denunciations, and describe how post-1908 “Turkification” quickly turned to repression: assassinations, forced disarmament of Christians, torture, and widespread intimidation that helped drive Balkan Christians into alliance. The narrative then shifts to western Asia Minor, recounting boycotts, incitement, killings, expulsions, and the destruction of villages around Smyrna, illustrated by the 1914 sack of Phocea as an “organized” operation. A substantial section presents corroborating evidence on the Armenian deportations—eyewitness accounts from Aleppo and a detailed report by Walter M. Geddes—depicting caravans of women, children, and the elderly dying from brutality, starvation, and disease, and notes similar devastation in the Pontus. It closes this opening portion with the 1919 Greek landing at Smyrna—acknowledging initial shootings and looting, then emphasizing Governor Sterghiades’ swift punishments—and outlines the subsequent Hellenic administration’s reforms, from curbing vice to funding Turkish schools and building public health services. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76324,908,'Reading ease score: 55.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76324,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76324,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76324,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76325,520,'"Pyhäaamu Anttilan pihalla :  Yksinäytöksinen maalaisnäytelmä by Veera Roos" is a one-act rural play written in the early 20th century. Set on a Finnish farmyard during a Sunday morning, it portrays village life with humor and warmth. The likely topic is rural courtship and family authority, contrasting city-bred manners with country values.  The play follows Antti, who loves Helmi, a capable servant girl, but faces his father’s initial resistance. To jolt his father, Antti feigns interest in Olga, a fashionable city seamstress, while the wealthy but simple Kontinahon Tahvana bungles a bid to court Helmi. Emäntä quietly favors Helmi, and the father, alarmed by the prospect of a frivolous city daughter-in-law and by Tahvana’s suit, realizes Helmi’s worth. Fearing he may lose her, he asks Helmi to marry Antti, and she gladly agrees. Misunderstandings dissolve, and the family plans to celebrate their engagement alongside Aino’s upcoming wedding, affirming the play’s gentle moral that industrious good sense and “maahenki” outshine shallow sophistication. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76325,908,'Reading ease score: 63.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76325,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76325,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76325,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76326,520,'"Onkikalastuksen opas" by Lauri Soini is a practical guidebook on angling written in the early 20th century. It offers hands-on instruction for recreational freshwater fishing in Finnish waters, covering gear, bait, techniques, seasons, and species-specific tactics, from simple float-fishing to live-bait, longlines, winter methods, lures, and river fishing.  The opening of the guide explains why anglers succeed or fail, stressing careful tackle, natural presentation, and stealth. It then details equipment (rods, lines, floats, hooks, landing net), how to choose and rig them, and how to find and keep good bait—especially worms—and even store them over winter. Next come clear rules for timing (best months and hours), weather and wind, choosing productive spots (weed edges, structure, shade, inlets), and quiet conduct at the water. Species notes follow with concise tips for perch, pike, ide, bream, char, eel, rudd, tench, bleak, and roach, including bait choices and hook sizes. The text then introduces live-bait use and rigging, longlines (vela/selkärihma), setlines with floats or bank stakes (polokoukut), and ice fishing with setlines and jigs (pirkka/torkko). It closes this opening stretch with lure and trolling methods—trolling rods, spoon lures, feathered “flies,” artificial minnows—and begins a section on rapids fishing with natural baits and small lures, again emphasizing quiet, precise presentation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76326,908,'Reading ease score: 38.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76326,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76326,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76327,520,'"The true-born Irishman :  or, Irish fine lady : a comedy of two acts by Macklin" is a satirical stage comedy written in the late 18th century. The play skewers fashionable pretension and social climbing in Dublin, lampooning anglicized airs, reckless gambling, and marital folly, while contrasting sturdy Irish plain-dealing with imported vanity.  Country gentleman Murrogh O’Dogherty laments that his wife, newly back from London and rebranded “Mrs. Diggerty,” has caught the “fine lady” fever—aping English speech, chasing titles, and losing money at cards with Lady Kinnegad, Lady Bab Frightful, and their set. An English coxcomb, Count Mushroom, also Lord Old-Castle’s agent, tries to seduce her to sway lease terms, but O’Dogherty and the maid Katty intercept his letters and answer in her name to entrap him. At a bustling evening of gaming, O’Dogherty’s brother, Counsellor Hamilton, shocks Mrs. Diggerty into repentance with a blunt warning about her reputation. The husband forgives her and bids farewell to French cooks and London affectations. Finally, Mushroom arrives in women’s clothes for an assignation, is terrified by O’Dogherty’s feigned jealousy and pistol, and, in a panic, hides in a portmanteau. The company exposes and parades him for ridicule, and the play ends with the coxcomb punished and the “Irish fine lady” reclaimed to sense. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76327,908,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76327,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76327,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76327,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76328,520,'"The peasants, [vol. 2] :  Winter by Władysław Stanisław Reymont is a novel written in the early 20th century. It portrays the rhythms, hardships, and passions of a Polish village through the season of winter, focusing on peasant life, social bonds and rifts, and the forces of nature. Central to this volume are Antek, his wife Hanka, his domineering father Boryna, and the alluring Jagna, whose presence intensifies family and village tensions.  The opening of the novel immerses the reader in a fierce winter: gales scour the fields, snow buries the village, and daily life constricts under cold and scarcity. We meet Antek’s impoverished household—Hanka, their children, and the old man Bylica—estranged from Boryna and shunned by neighbors, forced to sell their beloved cow to Jewish dealers after painful bargaining. Antek, restless and humiliated, refuses local work, drinks at Yankel’s tavern, and is shaken by a brief sight of Boryna driving with Jagna; Hanka, anxious and practical, secures spinning from the organist’s wife and provisions for the family, then asks the miller for work for Antek, even as gossip hints at Antek’s obsession with Jagna. Village talk stirs about the manor’s logging and looming conflict over forest rights; Klemba offers plain support; and Antek finally takes grueling work at the new sawmill under Matthew, a rival whose authority and shared desire for Jagna deepen a simmering feud amid the relentless cold. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76328,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Peasants',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76328,908,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76328,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76328,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76329,520,'"The peasants, [vol. 4] : Summer" by Władysław Stanisław Reymont is a novel written in the early 20th century. It paints a rich, communal portrait of rural Polish life in the village of Lipka, where land, faith, custom, and desire bind and divide families. Centered on the Boryna household and their neighbors, it follows the rhythms of work and worship, the pull of inheritance and marriage, and the pressures from gentry and outsiders. Expect a sweeping, character-driven village saga with Hanka, Antek, Yuzka, and Jagna among the key figures.  The opening of the novel begins with the sudden death of the patriarch, Matthias Boryna, discovered by his dog and mourned by his family and the whole village. Ambrose and neighbors prepare the body, Matthew builds the coffin, the priest and blacksmith arrange the funeral, and Hanka’s grief is threaded with urgent thoughts about land and the absent Antek. A rain-soaked, solemn funeral procession reveals the community’s faith and fear as the priest scolds their sins and the Squire pointedly seeks a settlement with Lipka over forest rights. After the burial feast, the night fills with uneasy signs of the dead man’s spirit, then the scene shifts to the blazing feast day of Saints Peter and Paul: bells, crowds, booths, prayers, and gossip. The Germans pass through, leaving Podlesie under jeers; the Squire flatters the peasants; and the organist’s son, now a seminarian, charms the crowd—especially Jagna. Hanka is shamed to find her father begging among the Dziads, while at home the blind beggar is fed and villagers trade news: Simon’s banns with Nastka, Dominikova’s fury, and rumors of the Voyt’s missing money. The section closes with youthful courtship, rivalry, and the smith calling a meeting, as everyday life resumes under summer’s glare. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76329,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Peasants',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76329,908,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76329,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76329,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76330,520,'"The peasants, [vol. 3] :  Spring" by Władysław Stanisław Reymont is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a Polish village, it follows the spring season’s surge of work, faith, and desire around the Boryna household—old farmer Maciej, his son Antek, Antek’s wife Hanka, and young wife Yagna—along with their neighbors. It centers on land, community, and the tensions of love and survival that bind and divide the villagers.  The opening of this novel unfolds with a lyrical dawn of spring and the return of Agata, an aged beggar, to the village of Lipka, where she learns that most men have been jailed after a violent clash in the forest, leaving Maciej Boryna near death and Antek imprisoned. The focus then shifts to Palm Sunday as Hanka, pregnant and resolute, quietly takes command of the farm, while Yagna neglects her stricken husband and flirts with the Voyt, and the blacksmith prowls for hidden money. Roch brings word from the jail—Antek is alive, in fair condition, and urges the household to slaughter the pig for Easter—while the women’s grief and anger simmer through the village. In a brief lucid moment, Boryna entrusts Hanka with secret cash and charges her to defend Antek; by a rainy morning the household readies the pig-killing, everyday work pushing on under strain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76330,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Peasants',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76330,908,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76330,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76330,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76331,520,'"The Motion Picture Chums at the Fair: or, The Greatest Film Ever Exhibited" by Victor Appleton is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a band of ambitious movie-house operators—led by steady, inventive Frank Durham, with quick-tempered Pep Smith, level-headed Randy Powell, loyal backer Hank Strapp, and cheerful organist Ben Jolly—as they chase a big opportunity to run a picture theatre at the Panama-Pacific Exposition. Their plans draw them into show-business logistics, fairground politics, and the schemes of a suspicious promoter trailed by a Secret Service man.  The opening of the story shows the friends tallying record receipts at their New York theatre and debating a bold expansion to the San Francisco fair. Frank’s trip to the bank sparks a testy collision with a blustering stranger named Royston, and he later rescues a distraught, oddly dressed man from oncoming traffic. Despite rumors that all Zone concessions are taken, a telegram hints at openings, so the group rushes West; on the train they again cross paths with Royston, and a quiet fellow traveler, Richard Bullard, privately warns Frank that Royston is a dubious promoter under Secret Service watch. Reaching the fair, the boys marvel at its wonders but are told they’re too late to secure suitable space, and as they grapple with disappointment back at their hotel, Bullard arrives to ask their help in discreetly keeping Royston in sight. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76331,908,'Reading ease score: 83.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76331,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76331,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76331,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76331,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76332,520,'"Collected poems of Clarence Edwin Flynn, first series :  1929 and earlier" by Flynn is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. The volume gathers devotional, reflective, and plainspoken verse on faith, home, nature, childhood, teaching, and the moral costs of war. It also engages modern marvels—cinema, radio, electricity—contrasting fleeting spectacle with enduring virtues. Readers will find hymns, prayers, patriotic pieces, and narrative lyrics that champion hope, service, and the sacredness of ordinary life.  The opening of the collection presents a transcriber’s note about editorial method (poems ordered by publication year, standardized title case, appendices) and acknowledgements, followed by a preface sketching the poet’s life, byline variations, and the public-domain scope of this first installment. The initial run of poems then establishes the book’s range: dialect humor (“Si Gidders”), biblical monologue and prayer (“Hagar’s Song,” “Child’s Prayer”), nostalgia for childhood and home, and meditations on hope, heaven, and Christ (“The Open Tomb,” “The King”). World War I shadows many pieces, opposing militarism and honoring sacrifice (“A Price Unpaid,” “Two Princes,” “The New Day,” “Unknown Soldier”), while recurring “screen” and “picture” motifs reflect on film and modern media (“Pictures,” “The World’s Drama,” “The Silent Drama”). Other representative themes include the dignity of teaching and youth (“The Teacher,” “The Builders”), patriotic affection (“The Flag at Sea,” “The Stars and Stripes for Me”), and technological wonder (“Electricity,” “The Lens,” “The Radio Neighborhood”), all voiced in clear, uplifting language. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76332,908,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76332,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76332,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76332,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76333,520,'"Runokirja : Valikoima tekijän laulurunoudesta" by Eino Leino is a collection of lyric poetry written in the early 20th century. It gathers nationalist hymns, mythic ballads, cityscapes, and intimate love lyrics into a musical, image-rich vision of Finnish identity. Themes range from freedom and civic courage to the seasons, nature, time, and death, often drawing on the Kalevala and folk legend alongside contemporary life.  The opening of the collection moves from a springtime cantata that calls Finland to awaken and sow freedom, to a legend of divine favor, and a youthful dream of a just nation; it then sketches portraits (Ibsen, Aleksis Kivi), and vivid Helsinki scenes in fog and in frost. Political poems champion free speech and wrestle with turmoil and hope, while northern pieces evoke Lapland’s brief summer and the blaze of aurora borealis. A series of ballads and mythic retellings—of Marjatta, Ilmarinen, Väinämöinen, Imatra, and sea-beast Iku-Turso—stand beside darker songs of Tuonela, vengeance, and fate. These grand notes are balanced by tender nature and love lyrics, rustic and road-side voices, and meditative pieces, concluding in the excerpt with the forest-maiden Tellervo beckoning the wanderer into the woods. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76333,908,'Reading ease score: 51.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76334,520,'"Ikuinen rakastaja" by Edgar Rice Burroughs is a novel written in the early 20th century. It entwines prehistoric adventure with colonial‑era African romance as a Stone Age hunter and a modern woman become mysteriously linked across time. The story centers on the caveman Nu and the fearless Victoria Custer (with her brother Barney), alongside Lord and Lady Greystoke in the African frame. Expect swift hunts, peril, and a simmering cross‑time love thread.  The opening of the story follows Nu, a prehistoric hunter who slays a sabertooth to win his beloved Nat‑ul, only to be trapped by a cataclysmic quake in the beast’s cave. The scene shifts to Africa, where Victoria Custer, visiting the Greystokes, reveals an intense fear of earthquakes and recurring dreams of a powerful, ancient lover; when William Curtiss proposes, a sudden tremor interrupts and she faints. After the quake, a sealed mountain cave bursts open and Nu awakens into a changed world, emerging with his spear and the trophy head, repairing his weapon, and killing a zebra. A hunting party (including Greystoke) finds the kill and deduces a human spearman at work, while Nu shadows them to the bungalow, fascinated by these strange people and drawn by an elusive, alluring scent. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76334,908,'Reading ease score: 40.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76334,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76334,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76334,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76334,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76334,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76335,520,'"Die Anthropophagie" by Richard Andree is an ethnographic study written in the late 19th century. It examines habitual cannibalism as a cultural practice—excluding famine-driven cases—across prehistory, classical sources, European folklore, and contemporary societies worldwide. The work assembles evidence, classifies motives (vengeance, ritual, magic, social law), maps geographic distribution, and suggests a gradual decline alongside expanding European influence.  The opening of the study lays out this scope and method, then moves swiftly into evidence. It first debates prehistoric cannibalism via cave finds and cut-marked human bones (Belgium, France, Italy, Iberia, Germany), citing scholars like Spring, Garrigou, Regnault, Piette, and others to argue at least plausible ceremonial or nutritive consumption (notably brain and marrow). It next surveys “survivals” in myth and folklore—from Greek legends (Polyphemus, Tantalus, Atreus) and European witch tales to Slavic, Finnic, and Turkic stories—and shows living superstitions that attribute power or healing to human blood and organs, with modern cases of grave violation and battlefield organ-eating as grim parallels. A concise historical chapter gathers classical testimonies (Herodotus, Strabo, Porphyry, Sallust, Juvenal, Jerome) to bridge antiquity and the present. The regional survey then begins: in the Malay Archipelago it details the Batta’s legally sanctioned cannibalism and rarer practices among Dajaks and Philippine groups (Manobo ritual heart-eating, outcast Asuan families, head-taker customs), while on the Asian mainland it notes only sporadic, famine-driven or rumored cases. Entering Africa, it documents West African practices from Sierra Leone to the Niger Delta—including multiple eyewitness accounts of killings and open sale or cooking of human flesh in Bonny, Okrika, and Old Calabar—and in equatorial West Africa reports on the Fan, where cannibalism extends to trading in corpses and grave-robbing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76335,908,'Reading ease score: 59.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76336,520,'"From Vermont to Damascus :  Returning by way of Beyrout, Smyrna, Ephesus,…." by Adna Brown is a travelogue written in the late 19th century. It compiles a Vermonter’s letters from an “Oriental tour,” blending vivid on-the-spot observations with practical travel advice and illustrations. The likely focus is a guided journey through Italy, Egypt, the Holy Land, and parts of Europe, narrated with Protestant-American sensibilities and an eye for history, scenery, and everyday customs.  The opening of the book traces Brown’s decision to escape a harsh Vermont winter by joining Dr. A. E. Dunning’s organized tour, the departure from New York on the steamship Normannia, and a lively Atlantic crossing via the Azores to Gibraltar and Algiers. It then covers first impressions of Naples and its environs (museums, the royal palace, Sorrento, Pompeii, Vesuvius), followed by Rome and Tivoli (St. Peter’s, the Vatican, the Pantheon, the Forum and Palatine ruins), and a rail run to Brindisi. From there the party sails to Alexandria, notes the shock of North African street life, and rides to Cairo to embark on the Nile steamer Memphis. A brisk sequence of Nile stops ensues—donkey rides to Memphis and Beni-Hassan, a night visit to a vast sugar works, Assiout’s mission service, irrigation methods, the temple at Denderah, and extended days amid the ruins of Luxor/Thebes—continuing upriver to Esneh, Edfu, Assouan, and Philæ. Returning to Cairo, Brown sketches modern and old quarters, mosques and bazaars, social and religious customs, the pyramids, a call on a wealthy sheik, the howling dervishes, the museum, and preparations to move on toward Palestine. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76336,908,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76337,520,'"Maid Margaret of Galloway : The life story of her whom four centuries have…." by S. R. Crockett is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. Told as the spirited first-person memoir of the “Fair Maid of Galloway,” it blends romance and clan politics with Franco-Scottish history in the era of the Douglases and the Dauphin of France. The tale centers on Margaret Douglas, her formidable cousin and intended, William Douglas, his dazzling brother James, and their friend Abbot Laurence M‘Kim, moving between a Touraine convent, a Loire-side château, and the larger struggle for power in Scotland. Expect courtly fêtes, tourneys, and intrigue threaded with a sharp, lively female voice.  The opening of the novel frames Margaret’s narrative as “found papers,” then plunges into her witty account of hating life in a strict convent at Cheverney until Abbot Laurence arrives with a papal Bull to fetch her for a marriage to her cousin, William Douglas. Whisked to Cour Cheverney under the patronage of Sieur Paul, she tastes freedom, flirts, spars verbally with the future Louis XI (the Dauphin) in disguise, and needles both the grave William and the showy James. A lively sequence features her attempted escape toward Amboise, a triumphant tourney where James wins the prize, and William’s quiet, unexpected arrival as a masked combatant—only to be denied a kiss. At the start of their true courtship, William walks with her by a stream and candidly declares both his love and his grand design: to rule Scotland in fact, if not in name, avenge past wrongs, and bring law and order as the power behind the throne. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76337,908,'Reading ease score: 87.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76337,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76337,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76337,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76338,520,'"El Toro : A motor car story of interior Cuba" by E. Ralph Estep is an adventure travelogue written in the early 20th century. It recounts a small American team’s bid to drive a Packard across Cuba’s roadless interior, turning a business errand into a hard-bitten overland expedition. Led by Sidney D. Waldon with companions Edwin S. George, Fred Crebbin, the narrator, and their Cuban interpreter Rogelio, they confront stone trails, swamps, rivers, and mountain passes while sketching lively portraits of rural Cuban people and places far from tourist Havana.  The opening of this travelogue follows the party from Havana’s smooth boulevard into a brutal landscape of rocks, ruts, and bridgeless rivers, where they camp in the open, bargain for food in palm‑thatched huts, and learn to hack paths and build makeshift brush causeways. They inch from Camp Solitude past Benavides and Tosca, pick up Rogelio at Matanzas, and thread sugar fields, dry riverbeds, and ox‑cart ruts, often fording streams and jacking the car over stone steps. After a swamp traps them at dusk, locals help lever the car free and christen it “El Toro,” and the crew roars triumphantly into Santa Clara by night. Misled toward Camajuani and caught in driving rain, they claw over the Santa Fe passes, corduroy bogs with palm trunks, and wade rivers before reaching Camajuani, then slog on via Placetas through mill yards jammed with bull‑drawn cane carts. Nights bring flea‑ridden cots, a balcony bunk, and finally hammocks in a pig shed at Casa Cinco. At last an old Spanish road delivers them over stone bridges into Sancti Spiritus, where crowds cheer—after which the climactic push ends quietly as they load El Toro onto a flatcar and leave by rail. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76338,908,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76338,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76338,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76338,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76339,520,'"The Roman Hat Mystery: A Problem in Deduction" by Ellery Queen is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. It presents a classic closed-circle murder set in a Broadway theatre, where Inspector Richard Queen and his son Ellery investigate the poisoning of a notorious lawyer during a performance. The case hinges on rigorous deduction, suspiciously empty seats, and a missing tophat that turns into the puzzle’s signature clue.  The opening of the novel frames the story with a foreword by a friend who recounts retrieving Ellery’s manuscript and sketches the father–son team’s complementary talents. The scene then shifts to the Roman Theatre during the gangster play “Gunplay,” where a commotion reveals an audience member—Monte Field—dead in his seat. Officer Doyle locks down the house; Inspector Queen and Ellery arrive, establish a tight time window (last seen alive around 9:25, found dead about 9:55), and note seven sold-but-empty nearby seats and a conspicuously missing top hat. Early inquiries produce a half-empty ginger-ale bottle (procured by orangeade boy Jess Lynch for Field), a flask, evidence pointing to fast-acting poison, and no gun or stab wound. Usher and doorman accounts suggest no straightforward comings and goings, while a known crook, “Parson” Johnny Cazzanelli, is caught trying to slip out, and Field’s former partner Benjamin Morgan is identified in the audience. The police begin collecting names and ticket stubs, order a painstaking search, and flag the missing hat as a critical lead, with a lexicon of characters and a theatre map signaling a fair-play, clue-driven investigation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76339,908,'Reading ease score: 75.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76340,520,'"The fairy flute by Rose Fyleman" is a collection of children’s poems written in the early 20th century. The book revels in fairies and everyday magic, offering playful lore, gentle advice, and nature-rich scenes that invite young readers to notice enchantment in gardens, fields, and city streets.  The verses show how to greet fairies, describe their dances and music, and reveal traces of them at dawn, in orchards, and along rainy lanes. Brief tales introduce a fairy tailor, a cat who is really a prince, a canary who was once a singing fairy, witches and a goblin out junketing, and “willow princesses” swaying in the trees. Set pieces include a green loch where fairies bathe, a skylark ride, a moonlit voyage in a glass boat, a fairy ball, and the magical flute whose tune charms birds, flowers, and townsfolk. Sprinkled through are lullabies, hints and rules, comic turns (a child’s temper “blows out” the moon), and closing pieces where fairies complain about stolen mushrooms and give thanks to kind gardeners—blending wonder, warmth, and light-hearted morals. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76340,908,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76340,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76340,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76340,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76341,520,'"Colombine :  a fantasy : and other verses by Reginald Arkell" is a verse drama with a companion collection of poems, written in the early 20th century. The book blends a fanciful one-act play, drawing on commedia dell’arte figures, with lyrical and dialect pieces. Its likely topic is the tension between glittering illusion and quiet sincerity in love, set against English folklore, memory, and rural life.  The play opens on Cissbury Beacon, where an old laborer, Dan’l, and the boy Nathan’l muse about fairy rings and the Roman past before Colombine appears. She expects a duel for her favor, but Harlequin and Pierrot propose arbitration, pulling Dan’l in as judge. Harlequin dazzles with promises—the Land of Yesterday and a crystal that reveals the future—while Colombine gently refuses both nostalgia and fortune-telling. Pierrot offers little but honest love, which she chooses; Harlequin flounces off, and Colombine and Pierrot depart together as night falls, leaving Dan’l half-believing he has seen a fairy. The accompanying poems range from wry meditations on fate and art (“The Marionette,” “Criticism”) to tender, rustic vignettes and love pieces in dialect (“Th’ Coortin’,” “The Buryin’,” “A Zong to Zing-Oh!”), with notes of homesickness and sudden loss (“A Letter from Home”), playful mischief (“Forfeits,” “Treason and Plot”), and a closing vision of the long-sought ideal found in life’s shadowed valleys (“El Dorado”). (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76341,908,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76341,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76341,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76341,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76342,520,'"Juhannustanssi: Romaani Karjalan kannakselta" by Simo Eronen is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set on the Karelian Isthmus just after civil strife, it follows Eino Rautanen’s return to the family manor and the factory community as he is drawn—despite reluctance—into rebuilding efforts and local responsibilities. At the same time, he navigates a fraught past with a young nurse and a rekindled bond with his childhood friend Siiri Falkman, while themes of legacy, class, and modern change ripple through manor, village, and mill.  The opening of the novel centers on feverish preparations at the Päiväniemi manor for Eino’s homecoming, seen through Matilda Rautanen’s bustling pride and the uneasy arrival of the gentle nurse Mrs. Syväri, who secretly bears the memory of a brief, consuming affair with Eino. Touring the rooms awakens her past—echoed by the portrait of Eino’s scandalous forebear—and she flees in turmoil just before he arrives. Eino’s first day back is tender and practical: reminiscing with his mother, hearing of the new mill director Rönkä, and being deftly enlisted to locate sites for a hospital and orphanage, with the orphan Liisu as emblem of the community’s needs. A social visit from the Falkmans follows; walking to the lakeside pavilion, Eino perceives Siiri anew—self-possessed, warm, and changed by Berlin—and an unspoken understanding forms as midsummer plans (and the mothers’ quiet hopes) frame the promise ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76342,908,'Reading ease score: 43.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76342,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76342,635);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76343,520,'"Johan Ludvig Runeberg" by Maila Talvio is a literary biography written in the early 20th century. It charts the rise of Finland’s national poet from a modest coastal childhood to cultural preeminence, emphasizing the experiences, friendships, and ideals that shaped his voice. Expect an intimate, source-based portrait of his formative years, teaching and editorial work, and the seeds of the poems that would define a nation.  The opening of the biography moves from a seer’s “crown” vision in Pietarsaari to Runeberg’s frail, poor childhood, strict schooling in Oulu and Vaasa, mischievous boldness, early verses, and deepening love of nature, hunting, and birds. Hardship marks his student life in Turku until tutoring in Saarijärvi immerses him in the Finnish heartland—landscape and people that kindle Hirvenhiihtäjät—and in Ruovesi he gathers veterans’ tales that feed later war poetry. Returning to Turku, and then Helsinki after the great fire, he enters a brilliant circle (Snellman, Lönnrot, Cygnaeus, Nervander), publishes his first poems, secures academic posts, and marries Fredrika Tengström. He helps found the Lauantai Society, teaches at the new lyceum, edits Helsingfors Morgonblad, and—per Topelius’s lively recollections—maintains a frugal yet warm household while tutoring rigorously. After failing to obtain a university chair but achieving new literary success with Hanna, he takes the Porvoo lectureship; the section closes with the family’s arduous spring arrival there. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76343,908,'Reading ease score: 31.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76343,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76344,520,'"Over Bemerton''s :  An easy-going chronicle" by E. V. Lucas is a novel written in the early 20th century. It is a mellow, observant London chronicle following a middle‑aged returnee who settles above a second‑hand bookshop in Westminster and drifts into a web of friendships, family ties, and bookish pleasures. The tone is gently comic and reflective, with vignettes of city life and character study at its heart, especially the narrator Kent Falconer, his capable stepsister Naomi, the bookseller Mr. Bemerton, the voluble landlady Mrs. Duckie, and a caustic journalist, Mr. Dabney.  The opening of the chronicle finds Kent Falconer back from long exile, seeking quiet rooms near Queen Anne’s Gate; Naomi steers him to a flat over Bemerton’s bookshop, complete with a formidable landlady and the promise of midnight reading. A chance “for luck” purchase yields a Chinese biographical dictionary that becomes his delight, while a brisk tour introduces his Queen Anne’s Gate household—level‑headed Naomi, opinionated Drusilla, brothers Frank and Lionel, and the ornamental family friend Dollie. Falconer roams a changed London, contrasts hansoms with motor cabs, and savors book‑lover riches, even as he sketches the Duckie clan (including music‑hall star Alf Pinto, dresser Beatrice, and boy Ern) and the shabby waterman at the pub corner. Mr. Dabney of The Balance arrives to rail at new journalism and hedonism, prompting a debate on what might cure the age; Mr. Bemerton grants the narrator nocturnal access to his shelves, revealing a quiet world of cataloguers and literary anecdotes, a hint of an old flame named Miss Gold, and, finally, the narrator’s rapt return to cricket and memories of W. G. Grace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76344,908,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76344,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76344,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76345,520,'"»Ei» on parempi kuin »kyllä» :  1-näytöksinen laulunäytelmä by J. L. Heiberg" is a one-act musical comedy (vaudeville) written in the early to mid-19th century. In this Finnish setting, the play gently satirizes courtship, matchmaking, and social calculation, showing how a well‑timed “no” can outdo any “yes.”  The story follows Gamstrup, a stern guardian; his spirited niece Sofia; Halme, a young law graduate lodging in their home; and Liima, an earnest organist. Halme plans to placate his father by proposing to a wealthy cousin, expecting a refusal, while quietly courting Sofia. Liima arrives to borrow finery—and Halme’s help—to woo an unnamed bride who proves to be Sofia herself. Primed by Halme, Sofia answers every question with “no,” sending Liima away crestfallen. When Gamstrup orders her to reply “no” to Halme as well, Halme returns jubilant: his cousin’s engagement has triggered a handsome inheritance, removing all obstacles. He cleverly frames his questions so Sofia’s repeated “no” affirms her love and consent, winning Gamstrup’s blessing; Liima bows out, and the finale proclaims that sometimes “no” is better than “yes.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76345,908,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76345,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76345,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76346,520,'"Nieuw Utopia" by Bernard Alexander Canter is a utopian-philosophical novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on Professor Godefroy Leyden, an eminent physician who seeks rejuvenation through gland transplantation and finds his soul cast into a metaphysical realm while his body lies in narcotic stasis. The narrative blends scientific speculation with satire, pitting medical inquiry against legal formalism and probing materialism, religion, and the nature of truth as it gestures toward an ideal social vision.  The opening of Nieuw Utopia frames its tale as “abstract truth,” then follows Leyden, compelled to retire by law at seventy, as he undertakes an experimental operation involving transplanted ape glands. The procedure succeeds physically but leaves him in a deep, unending narcose: his body rejuvenates as his soul, expelled by anesthesia, dwells in “Psychia,” unable to return because the implanted animal forces keep the body mechanically alive. Surgeons exhaust their remedies while the legal faculty, caricatured as worshippers of form over spirit, prepares to prosecute him for evading the retirement law. Meanwhile Leyden, lucid in his disembodied state, observes the operation, tests the properties of his “psychic” body, contemplates light and time, and watches patients he once cured, before praying in humility. He then meets the jackal-headed Anubis, who demands a confession; Leyden counters with cool, scientific reasoning about sin, justice, and atavism, and begins recounting his life—just as the excerpt ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76346,908,'Reading ease score: 66.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76346,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76346,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76347,520,'"Hellas ja helleenit : Piirteitä nykyisestä Kreikasta ja sen muinaismuistoista" by I. K. Inha is a travelogue and historical account written in the late 19th century. It combines on-the-spot reportage from Greece with vivid reflections on classical ruins, the character of modern Hellenes, and the nation’s long arc from antiquity through Ottoman rule to renewed statehood in the shadow of a recent Greco‑Turkish crisis. A journalist-narrator observes landscapes, cities, and people while revisiting the myths and monuments that shaped European civilization. Expect reflective travel scenes interleaved with accessible history and cultural portraiture, not a single continuous plot.  The opening of the work sets the terms in a brief preface: the author is a newspaperman offering impressions from a short stay in Athens, with antiquities as a main focus. It begins on Acrocorinth, contrasting glowing temple ruins and noble figures of poor shepherds with a sweeping evocation of Greece as Europe’s cultural cradle. A long, compressed survey follows: from Roman-era decline through barbarian raids, Byzantine shifts, Slavic, Saracen, and Norman incursions, Venetian depredations (including the Parthenon’s ruin), and the rise of European philhellenism. The narrative then recounts the Greek War of Independence—Ottoman oppression, klepht and armatole fighters, atrocities on both sides, philhellenic volunteers (notably Byron), naval heroes, Ibrahim Pasha’s onslaught, Mesolongi’s stand, and great‑power intervention leading to independence. Finally it turns to contemporary tensions with Turkey over Crete and irredentist aims, before shifting into the author’s own journey south from Finland to Corfu during wartime excitement, where he records early front reports and first impressions of the Mediterranean world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76347,908,'Reading ease score: 32.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76347,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76347,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76348,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no.…" is a Victorian-era periodical issue from the late 19th century. It is a general-interest magazine gathering essays, serialized fiction, short nonfiction, and poetry. The issue’s likely topic is a wide-ranging miscellany designed to entertain and inform, touching on social history, law, medicine, everyday anecdotes, and popular storytelling.  The contents include an essay tracing the origins and meanings of British inn-signs—especially their heraldic roots and decline with rising literacy—followed by a thriller installment in which Isodore exposes Le Gautier’s sham spiritualism, Linda Despard confesses her role in the fraud, Sir Geoffrey learns he was duped, and danger looms as Le Gautier arrives. “Stories of Cats” defends feline character through striking homing and devotion anecdotes. The mystery “Wanted, a Clue” concludes with Miss Armitage discovering arsenic-impregnated candles as the murder method, Edith’s rescue, the conspirators’ arrest, and a quiet domestic aftermath. Practical pieces outline the common-law duties and liabilities of innkeepers, recount wry episodes from Irish rent-collecting, and suggest a medical cause of “clergyman’s sore throat” tied to preaching posture. A closing lyric, “In the Distant Years,” reflects on lost love, misjudgment, and enduring hope. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76348,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Edinburgh_Journal',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76348,908,'Reading ease score: 66.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76348,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76349,520,'"Marcantonio Colonna alla battaglia di Lepanto" by Alberto P. Guglielmotti is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. It traces the formation of the Holy League, the war for Cyprus, and the climactic naval battle, centering on Marcantonio Colonna’s command and using Vatican and Colonna family archives. The work highlights the tense diplomacy among the Papacy, Venice, and Spain and the naval contest with the Ottoman Empire.  The opening of the book sets the stakes by portraying the Ottoman Empire’s youthful strength and arguing that Lepanto marked the beginning of its decline. It then shows Pope Pius V seizing the Cyprus crisis to forge a Christian league, appointing Colonna as captain general, and detailing his character, ceremony under the papal banner, and rapid preparations: arming galleys, commissioning captains, recruiting infantry, and gathering noble volunteers. Diplomatic letters from Spain, Venice, and Malta proclaim unity, yet the narrative unveils conflicting state interests—especially Spain’s cautious, ambiguous posture—and Gianandrea Doria’s delays and discourtesies, which Colonna patiently manages to overcome. Parallel chapters recount Mustafa’s invasion of Cyprus, the weakened defenses of Nicosia after Astorre Baglioni moves to Famagosta, Colonel Palazzo’s stout but undermined defense, a squandered sortie, and mounting Turkish assaults. The section culminates with the papal and Spanish squadrons reaching Crete to join Girolamo Zane; Zane and Colonna urge an immediate move to Cyprus to strike the Ottoman fleet, while Doria resists, prompting Colonna to convene a council of the allied commanders. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76349,908,'Reading ease score: 48.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76349,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76349,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76349,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76349,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76350,520,'"Elegiasta oodiin :  ynnä muita runoja by Aaro Hellaakoski" is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The book charts a lyrical journey from elegy to ode, moving through themes of nature, the sea, love, spiritual doubt, civic memory, and the human struggle with fate. Its likely topic is the poet’s search for meaning and clarity amid modern turmoil, using seasonal cycles and mythic images to test the soul’s resilience.  The collection opens with a prologue that invokes autumn and the stars as judges, and the first section sets a somber tone of exhaustion, loss, and skepticism (Elegia, Syys-ilta, Meren tuska, Pääsiäislaulu). The second section shifts to worldly and intimate scenes—street satire, love poems (Erotiikkaa), memories, and dramatic pieces like Anarkisti, where Nemesis confronts a rebel-dreamer. The third section turns outward to spring and travel—thaw, fields, lakes, and ridges (Kevään tulo, Heinäkuu, Koli)—but also inward to confrontation with nature’s indifferent power (Molok). The fourth section speaks in myth and emblem: the two Kain poems, the hawk and the mole, the lover and the wanderer, each testing freedom, instinct, and destiny. The final section gathers public remembrance (Vainajien kysymys), meditations on art and the sea, a brief credo of nothingness and forgetting, and culminates in Oodi and an epilogue that accept the charge: to receive the world fully, bear pain without illusion, and let the song stand as its witness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76350,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elegiasta_oodiin',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76350,908,'Reading ease score: 61.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76350,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76351,520,'"Voimaihmisiä" by Ain''Elisabet Pennanen is a novel written in the early 20th century. It offers a lyrical, psychological portrait of Hellevi Kolarila, a sensitive young woman pulled between first love, family scandal, and the competing claims of home, art, and modern independence. Her bond with the steadfast Risto shatters under a buried kinship secret, while a magnetic, worldly widow—Rouva U.—draws her toward a colder, self-styled freedom. Readers who value intimate interiority, female self-definition, and fin‑de‑siècle atmospheres will likely be intrigued.  The opening of the novel follows Hellevi by a hearth, drifting from ardent daydreams to bleak awakenings, then back into a single radiant childhood memory of her glamorous, absent singer-mother. It recounts a brief summer of love with Risto by the estate’s moonlit river—shadowed by local myths of a fatal merenneito—and the devastating letter that reveals Risto as her close kin, ending their engagement. Hellevi escapes to a nearby town as a schoolteacher, feels painfully isolated, and impulsively visits the cool, self-possessed Rouva U., whose cluttered, performative interior mirrors her aloofness. A second encounter in the park turns into a sharp exchange about women’s work, home, freedom, and desire; Hellevi imagines the widow as a living “mermaid.” When Risto’s brief note announces his new engagement, Hellevi reels, vows to master herself, and continues to waver between books, longing, and the enigmatic pull of the widow’s world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76351,908,'Reading ease score: 45.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76351,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76352,520,'"The world below" by S. Fowler Wright is a science fiction novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a contemporary narrator who agrees to test a professor’s experimental “projection” into the far future after previous volunteers vanish. In a transformed Earth of opal roads, carnivorous flora, and vast subterranean works, he encounters intelligent Amphibians and the hidden “Dwellers” who rule from below. Drawn into a high‑stakes rescue and an uneasy clash of species, he must survive alien ecologies, invisible bridges, and moral choices in a civilization long beyond human memory.  The opening of the novel introduces the time‑projection premise and the narrator’s deal to go forward after hearing of Brett’s disappearance and Templeton’s daring return and second, fatal attempt. Arriving in a silent, misty night beside an opal roadway and a sheer cliff, he endures a lethal plant attack, rescues a telepathic Amphibian who dies after sending him on a mission, and learns to move carefully through a world of invisible bridges and predatory “frog‑mouths.” Captured and released by a vast subterranean Dweller, he escapes through a spiraling tunnel, crosses a perilous hot‑sand conduit alive with pink worm‑tongues, and reaches the sea. There he meets a marching column of Amphibians, learns telepathically of their ancient treaty with the Dwellers and of a broken rule that led to a comrade’s capture, and is fed and swept along as they head inland for a covert rescue that must avoid the Dwellers’ notice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76352,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_World_Below',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76352,908,'Reading ease score: 73.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76352,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76352,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76352,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76352,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76353,520,'Êtes-vous fous? by René Crevel is a novel written in the early 20th century. It plunges into a feverish, surreal Paris where a disoriented man—soon rechristened M. Vagualame—stumbles from a mocking, personified City to a fortune-teller’s prophecies and into the orbit of the enigmatic Yolande. With demi-mondaines, a Prince, and visions of colored infants and flaming birds, the book satirizes fate, desire, illness, and modern decadence through hallucinatory episodes and razor-edged wit.  The opening of the novel personifies the City as a frigid temptress and follows a man shaken by an autumn morning into the lair of Mme de Rosalba, a fortune-teller whose trance-visions predict a marriage to a redhead, a blue baby, ruinous pleasures, and the entanglement with the glamorous Yolande, while scolding his “vague à l’âme” and offering absurd cautions. Reeling out, he recalls a wintry delirium when a “flame-bird” burst from a trombone and his illness led him to a Swiss sanatorium of balcony-bound patients and dueling gramophones; adrift again in fog, he accepts his new name, meets the alluring Yolande, and follows her home. There she rejects Rosalba’s gossip and unveils the incredible: she is a “living dead” woman sustained by a mummified fakir, once the dancer-spy Myrto-Myrta who moved through Viennese court intrigue, was betrayed by a mysterious lover-officer, executed, and then resurrected—only for her English savior to die in her cold embrace—after which she remade herself as Yolande. As she continues, the tale rewinds further to her childhood as Camille with her twin Pauline in Picpus—a cocher father’s fatal accident after a “prépuce” misunderstanding, a widow’s Italian lover who abuses the girls, and their exile to a fairground with their marraine Rachel, the future Mme de Rosalba—where the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76353,908,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76353,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76353,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76354,520,'The Breach of Trust; or, The Professor and Possessor of Piety by Madeline Leslie is a moral domestic novel written in the late 19th century. It contrasts hollow “professions” of religion with genuine Christian character through the fortunes of siblings Helen and Frank Edmond, who fall under the guardianship of the vain, self-promoting merchant Monson P. Tracy. The story probes hypocrisy, charity, and fiduciary abuse, set against New England parsonage life and a tender, emerging attachment within the pastor’s family.  The opening of the novel introduces Monson P. Tracy, a self-assured “professor of religion” who craves public praise yet withholds kindness, and contrasts him with his dying benefactor, the truly pious Roswell Edmond, who entrusts his children to Tracy’s care. A retrospective traces Tracy’s rise from destitute boy aided by Edmond to ambitious merchant, while the present follows Helen’s growing alarm at Tracy’s hypocrisy and his son Roswell’s calculated pursuit, alongside her compassion for a poor seamstress, Sarah Barrows, whom Tracy had wronged. With help from allies like the pastor Mr. Knowles and the merchant McKinstry, Helen raises funds to rescue Sarah, rebuffs Tracy’s interference in her visitors, and ultimately rejects Roswell’s proposal, after which she and Frank resettle near their country home. There they find calmer footing under the pastor’s wing, deepen ties with his son Frederic, take up study and charity among mill families, and the section closes on a dramatic rescue as Frederic saves Helen from a mad dog. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76354,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76354,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76354,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76355,520,'"The story of Dr. Duff" by A. L. O. E. is a biographical account written in the late 19th century. It recounts the life and mission of the Scottish evangelist-educator Alexander Duff, especially his pioneering English-medium education in Calcutta, his evangelistic labors, and the opposition and perils he faced. The narrative emphasizes his faith, stamina, and influence on early Hindu converts and on India’s emergent educated class.  The opening of the narrative traces Duff’s devout Scottish upbringing, vivid childhood impressions of judgment and calling, and early deliverances, then his friendship with John Urquhart that crystallizes into a personal resolve to “take up the cloak” of missionary service. It follows his marriage to Anne Drysdale and the harrowing voyage marked by shipwreck, a deckside prayer amid a storm, rescue, and arrival in India after further near-disaster in the monsoon. Once in Calcutta, Duff founds a school that teaches in English (with support from Raja Rammohun Roy), beginning humbly in a cramped room, stirring immense demand and training boys to think rather than memorize. The section closes with the first fruits of his work: the candid doubts and courageous baptisms of early converts such as Mokesh Chunder Ghose and the Koolin Brahmin Krishnamohan Banerjea, and the heartfelt plea “Can I be saved?” from Gopinath Nundi—signaling both the spiritual breakthroughs and the familial and social storms that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76355,908,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76355,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76355,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76356,520,'"The universe around us" by James Jeans is a popular-science astronomy book written in the early 20th century. It presents a clear, nontechnical survey of observational and theoretical astronomy—from the solar system and stars to nebulae, galaxies, cosmogony, and the large-scale structure of the cosmos—framed by the question of humanity’s place in the universe and updated with then-new findings such as Pluto, galactic rotation, and cosmic expansion.  The opening of this work recounts how Galileo’s telescope overturned the geocentric worldview (with the moons of Jupiter and the phases of Venus), traces the cultural resistance and eventual shift in human self-understanding, and explains why astronomy matters—existentially, scientifically, and aesthetically. It sets a vast time-scale perspective (Earth’s age versus the brief span of human and scientific history) and proposes that current astronomy offers only first approximations, like pieces of a jigsaw. Beginning its survey, it outlines the solar system (inner rocky planets, asteroid belt, giant outer planets, and newly found Pluto), questions Bode’s “law,” and sketches planetary conditions and temperatures. It then describes Herschel’s star counts and the biscuit-shaped galactic system, distinguishes planetary, galactic, and extra-galactic (spiral) nebulae, and emphasizes the colossal scale of systems like Andromeda. The text explains how stellar distances were first measured via parallax and builds the “distance ladder” from Earth to light-years, noting photography’s transformative role. It introduces star groups and binaries, uses Newton’s gravitation to show how stellar masses are weighed (and how luminosity varies dramatically with mass), and summarizes spectroscopic and eclipsing binaries. Finally, it introduces variable stars—especially Cepheids—pointing toward the period–luminosity relation that makes them cosmic distance markers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76356,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Universe_Around_Us',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76356,908,'Reading ease score: 52.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76356,667);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76357,520,'"Blind mice" by C. Kay-Scott is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a domestic social drama about an idealistic young architect, John Winter, his practical partner Jim Sprague, and John’s steady wife Lucy, whose household is unsettled by the arrival of Lucy’s self-dramatizing mother, “Nannie” Merwent. Themes of art versus money, marital loyalty, class pretensions, and a young woman’s self-determination run through the story.  The opening of the novel follows John and Jim on a rainy suburban commute to Lucy and their little boy Dimmie, where talk of work and money contrasts with John’s artistic ambitions and Lucy’s quiet good sense. The next morning John fetches Lucy’s mother, Nannie, whose flirtatious charm and needy vanity quickly win John’s attention while eroding Lucy’s place at her own table. The narrative then shifts to Nannie’s past—her spoiled Southern upbringing, manipulative marriage to Arthur Merwent, and Lucy’s difficult childhood—culminating in Lucy’s refusal to be maneuvered into a wealthy match and her decision to leave for Chicago to learn bookbinding, supported by her father. It closes on Nannie’s vicious outburst as Lucy departs, clarifying the emotional stakes and the fractures now shaping the Winters’ future. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76357,908,'Reading ease score: 86.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76357,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76357,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76358,520,'"They return at evening :  A book of ghost stories" by Herbert Russell Wakefield is a collection of ghost stories written in the early 20th century. It showcases unnerving hauntings and moral aftershocks in English settings, following figures such as a reclusive baronet, a steadfast butler, and a clear-eyed barrister drawn into occult trouble. Expect poised, civilized surfaces steadily eroded by guilt, menace, and the uncanny.  The opening of the collection presents three intertwined moods of dread. First, a country gentleman coolly recounts a toxic marriage that ends in a fatal “accident,” then marries a kindred soul only to be harried by voices, broadcasts, and apparitions that drive him toward a guarded confession to the coroner for his new wife’s sake. Next, a homeowner interviews a butler once suspected of murder, who tells how a ruthless squire’s killing of a poacher’s dog unleashed a piercing nocturnal “Sound” and an unseen hound that stalked its victim until a death the inquest could not explain. Finally, a celebrated barrister meets an old friend whose frayed nerves led him to a mesmeric occultist; after seductions, forgery, and a rebuffed club nomination, the occultist sends a malign paper sigil and incantation the friend finds himself compelled to use, hinting that darker consequences are beginning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76358,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76358,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76358,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76358,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76359,520,'"The Little Review, March 1917 (Vol. 3, No. 9) by Various" is a modernist literary magazine issue written in the early 20th century. It presents poetry, criticism, essays, and letters on contemporary literature, music, art, and theater, with a special dedication to the soprano Mary Garden.  The issue opens with Amy Lowell’s “On A Certain Critic,” a vivid defense of artistic passion framed through Keats and the moon. A long central essay exalts Mary Garden’s artistry—her voice, movement, and transformative stage presence—while Richard Aldington’s two prose poems, “Thanatos” and “Hermes-of-the-Dead,” meditate on love, mortality, and the afterlife with classical poise and trench-borne sorrow. Margaret C. Anderson’s “Harold Bauer’s Music” argues for Bauer’s unique sound-centered pianism, followed by brief editorial pieces: a fierce antiwar litany; a reflective note on the final volume of Nexö’s Pelle the Conqueror; a defense of Amy Lowell’s craft; and a teaser on James Joyce’s A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. “The Reader Critic” section hosts debates on virtuosity versus “spirit,” the meaning of “significant form,” and whether art should serve social movements, capped by a strong argument for art’s autonomy. The number closes with editorial notes and period advertisements, sustaining the magazine’s blend of modern aesthetics, cultural polemic, and advocacy for living artists. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76359,908,'Reading ease score: 68.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76360,520,'"Die Elixiere des Teufels :  Nachgelassene Papiere des Bruders Medardus, eines…." by E. T. A. Hoffmann is a novel written in the early 19th century. It is a Gothic, confessional tale framed as the posthumous papers of a Capuchin monk, charting spiritual temptation, pride, visions, and the lure of a diabolical elixir. The story centers on Brother Medardus, whose religious calling collides with unsettling apparitions and a mysterious bottle said to come from the Devil.  The opening of the novel sets an editorial frame: an editor in a monastery garden introduces the “papers” of Brother Medardus and invites the reader into his extraordinary life. Medardus then narrates his childhood near the holy shrine of Heilige Linde, early mystical impressions, and the protection of a noble abbess who supports his education; he eventually gravitates to a Capuchin house under the kindly Prior Leonardus. He struggles briefly with sensual temptation, chooses the cloister, becomes a famed preacher, and grows dangerously proud until a ghastly stranger in a violet mantle shatters him mid-sermon. Put in charge of the reliquaries, he learns of a flask from St. Anthony’s legend—the Devil’s “elixir”; a visiting count and tutor uncork it as fine wine, and later, tormented and desperate, Medardus secretly drinks from the bottle at night and feels a sudden, intoxicating resurgence of strength. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76360,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Devil%27s_Elixirs https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_Elixiere_des_Teufels',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76360,908,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76360,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76360,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76360,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76360,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76361,520,'"The odyssey of a torpedoed tramp" by Maurice Larrouy is an epistolary maritime war novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a French merchant steamer, the Pamir, and its young officer narrator under the gruff, resourceful Captain Fourgues as they haul coal, troops, and supplies through World War I hazards. The tale blends sea adventure with sharp, wry observations on naval strategy and bureaucracy from a merchant-marine vantage point. Readers drawn to gritty shipboard life, improvisation under pressure, and behind-the-lines wartime logistics will find it compelling.  The opening of the story unfolds through letters that begin in August 1914: the Pamir leaves New Orleans with cotton, suffers a broken propeller shaft mid-Atlantic, and is halted by a British destroyer in the Irish Channel that announces war, prompting a swift turn back to France. The crew is stripped for the Navy, replaced by hapless reservists, and the ship is pushed from crisis to crisis—limping to Morocco without wireless, begging coal, and even ferrying German civilians and their furniture (with a farcical piano disaster) before being chartered as a naval collier. Coaling cruisers and destroyers near the Ionian islands brings mishaps (a glancing collision, a smashed lifeboat) and tart commentary on awkward procedures and strategy. Subsequent letters chart coal runs to West Africa, a risky night delivery of grain and stores to Antivari under air attack, and a scolding from battleship officers about gear the Pamir doesn’t have, all while mechanical troubles and lack of orders persist. The narrative then shifts to Alexandria, on to England to fuel the Grand Fleet (with pointed contrasts between British and French practices), a hurried Newcastle refit that the narrator manages alone, and finally a return to the Mediterranean with guns and shells bound for the Dardanelles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76361,908,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76361,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76361,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76361,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76361,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76362,520,'"Africana; or, the heart of heathen Africa, Volume 1 (of 2) :  Native customs…." by Rev. Duff Macdonald is an ethnographic and missionary account written in the late 19th century. It sets out to systematize the beliefs, practices, and social life of East Central African peoples from close field observation, especially around Blantyre and Lake Nyasa. The volume surveys religion, law, family life, arts, language, and governance through a missionary lens, aiming to inform and reform Christian mission methods while introducing readers to largely undocumented customs.  The opening of the work explains the author’s purpose: to record customs before mission contact alters them, and to caution against missionaries assuming civil authority. He details the pitfalls of gathering reliable data—European bias in questions, “polite” answers from informants, interpreter and idiom traps (especially yes/no and before/after), and the distortions caused by note‑taking—then argues for the value of such study to psychology, ethnology, and the science of religion. Early chapters sketch first impressions: scant dress, heavy tattooing and lip rings, ubiquitous weapons, round smoke‑filled huts with rats, a predictable climate, maize porridge and beer, generous hospitality, light division of labor, and the local mosaic of Wayao, Machinga, Anyasa, Angulu, and Magololo chiefs; travel on winding footpaths, formal salutations, and women’s inferior status. Arts include ironworking, basketry, bark cloth, pottery, and simple music; “learned” roles blend herbalist and diviner, with witchcraft trials by poison and widespread charms. A rich oral literature—conundrums, sung tales with refrains, and word‑play chains—features animal fables and origin stories (pots, houses, death, monkeys). The theology section begins by defining spirit (lisoka, msimu, mulungu), treating the spirits of the dead as the operative gods, worshiped at verandah trees, bedsides, or mountain tops, and known through answered prayers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76362,908,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76363,520,'“Africana; or, the heart of heathen Africa, Volume 2 (of 2) : Mission life” by Rev. Duff Macdonald is a missionary history and travel narrative written in the late 19th century. The volume examines efforts to Christianise Central Africa around Lake Nyassa and the Shire Highlands, blending historical survey, anti-slavery advocacy, and first-hand mission experience. It highlights the work and setbacks of Portuguese and British missions, the role of figures like Livingstone and Bishop Mackenzie, and the practical challenges of building stations, teaching, and protecting refugees. The focus is on mission life in the field—its ideals, compromises, dangers, and daily realities.  The opening of the volume surveys early Portuguese exploration and Catholic missions, noting their zeal, methods, and hardships, and then recounts the Universities’ Mission launched after Livingstone, including armed clashes with the Yao, bold anti-slavery pledges, treachery at Mlanje, famine and sickness, Bishop Mackenzie’s death, and the mission’s withdrawal. It then shifts to the founding of the Free Church’s Livingstonia and the Church of Scotland’s Blantyre missions, their cooperation, local war scares from the Mangoni, and the deterrent effect of a European presence. The narrative emphasizes the missions’ stance against slavery, the reception of fugitives, and the growth of a free village, alongside the slow, stubborn work of building, teaching without reliable interpreters, and the thorny—and later questioned—assumption of civil jurisdiction and corporal punishment for theft. Interwoven is the author’s candid account of trying and failing to recruit clergy, deciding to go himself, and setting out for Africa. It culminates in a vivid travelogue from Quilimane up the Zambezi and Shire—mosquito-plagued waits, costly provisioning, crocodiles and hippos, and a night-time lion scare that dramatizes the perils at the very start of the journey inland. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76363,908,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76363,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76363,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76363,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76364,520,'"George Eliot och den engelska naturalistiska romanen :  en literär studie" by Helena Westermarck is a literary study written in the late 19th century. It investigates George Eliot’s life, ideas, and novels as exemplars of English naturalism, linking her art to contemporary science and philosophy. The work appears to combine biography with critical analysis, moving through her major books, ethical outlook, and artistic method while situating her alongside thinkers like Strauss, Feuerbach, Spinoza, and Comte.  The opening of the study sets out a dedication, a detailed table of contents, and a foreword arguing for Eliot’s extraordinary erudition and for the need, in Swedish, of a full biography that also presents English naturalism as coherent and ethical. It then sketches Eliot’s childhood in Warwickshire—her practical, respected father (a model for figures like Adam Bede/Caleb Garth), a capable mother reminiscent of Mrs. Poyser, her intense bond with brother Isaac, early schooling, fragile health, and deepening religious zeal. The narrative follows her move to Foleshill, immersion in the Bray/Hennell circle, and a decisive shift from evangelicalism toward a tolerant, development-centered outlook, culminating in the arduous translation of Strauss’s Leben Jesu (and later Feuerbach), alongside wide linguistic and musical study. It proceeds to her father’s death, a restorative stay in Geneva, return to England, editorial work at the Westminster Review, friendships with Herbert Spencer and G. H. Lewes, and the formation—and public defense—of her lifelong partnership with Lewes, including their productive Weimar and Berlin sojourns, before turning to her mid-1850s critical writing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76364,908,'Reading ease score: 55.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76364,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76365,520,'Ant ventures by Blanche Elizabeth Wade is a children’s chapter book of animal adventures written in the early 20th century. It follows Anthony Ant, a restless young ant sent on a “change-of-scene” journey prescribed by Dr. Alexander Beetle Bug, as he circles a meadow-world and meets a parade of insects and small creatures. The episodes are whimsical and gently moral, touching on politeness, courage, work, and finding joy beyond grumbling.  The opening of this tale shows Anthony sulking over chores until a beetle doctor’s “prescription” sends him traveling with a lunch basket and toiletry case. He loses his hat to a Field Mouse, narrowly escapes a Flicker by diving into an Angleworm’s doorway, ferries a brook on makeshift “boats,” and learns from a fussy Caterpillar not to quarrel. His courtesy to a Ladybug and a small Spider (Size Two) earns him a birthday outing at the Wild-Rose Tea House and a restocked basket; they share a serene chip-boat cruise and a lively insect band concert before he faces the night alone. Swept downstream and bruised, he treats himself with his mother’s supplies, scavenges food, works for a Mole family’s supper, and receives a calming “Night pass” from an August Croaker. A Robin’s theft of a berry whisks him into a tree, where he hides under bark, salvages the berry, meets a Squirrel, a Woodpecker, and tree-dwelling ants, and resumes his trek—ending with a stern Grasshopper’s advice about keeping one’s temper just as he admits he has no hat to “paste” a motto in. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76365,908,'Reading ease score: 86.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76365,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76365,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76365,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76366,520,'Kylmä sydän by Wilhelm Hauff is a fairy tale novella written in the early 19th century. Set in the Black Forest, it follows Petter (Pekka) Munk, a poor charcoal burner whose envy of rich raftsmen and glassmakers tempts him into deals with two spirits—the shrewd Glass-Imp and the menacing Dutch Michel. The tale probes ambition, greed, and the peril of trading one’s humanity for wealth and status.  At the start of the tale, the narrator paints the Black Forest’s people, trades, and folklore, highlighting two spirits: the helpful glass-imp and the giant Dutch Michel. Dissatisfied Pekka envies local notables, tries to summon the imp, hears a chilling legend about Michel, then finally meets the Glass-Imp and foolishly wishes for supreme dancing skill, a bottomless purse tied to a rich rival, and a glassworks. He squanders his new fortune in taverns, ruins the glassworks, and is disgraced when his money vanishes with his rival’s, losing everything to the bailiff. Turning to Dutch Michel, Pekka trades his beating heart for a cold stone one and cash; he drifts through a numb, joyless grand tour, returns, and—now unfeeling—amasses wealth through usury and grain-gouging, driving off the desperate with dogs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76366,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cold_Heart https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heart_of_Stone_(German_fairy_tale)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76366,908,'Reading ease score: 48.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76367,520,'The Master Craftsman by Walter Besant is a novel written in the late 19th century. It interweaves a Wapping legend of a lost bag of jewels with a contemporary London story about sudden poverty, temptation, and ambition. The likely focus is on Sir George Burnikel, his politically astute friend Lady Frances, and his determined cousin Robert, as money, class, and duty pull them toward an old mystery and new careers.  The opening of the novel sets the hook with a prologue in 1804 Wapping: the tavern-haunting sailor John Burnikel flaunts a bag of gems he claims came from an Indian monarch, shows it to his grand-nephews, then dies; the nephews tear his cottage apart, can’t find the treasure, quarrel, and part in bitterness. Shifting to the present day, young Sir George learns his father has squandered the family fortune; a solicitor urges him to “marry money” or find a career, while Lady Frances presses him toward politics and even offers funds—offers he refuses. George is then visited by a strikingly similar-looking cousin, Robert, a Wapping boat-builder who believes in the family jewel-legend and seeks practical help to enter Parliament as an Independent; George agrees to find out how, and goes down to Wapping, where the river’s history and Execution Dock frame the path back to the family’s origins and the dormant mystery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76367,908,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76367,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76367,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76368,520,'Le Sahara by E. F. Gautier is a scientific study written in the early 20th century. It synthesizes exploration records and modern science to explain the Sahara’s physical geography—its structure, climate, landforms, flora and fauna—and what these mean for human habitation. The work emphasizes deserts as climatic phenomena, the interaction of wind and water in shaping the land, and the Sahara’s role as a vast barrier between Mediterranean North Africa and the Sudanic south.  The opening of the book sketches how the desert came to be known, then lays out why it exists where it does: latitude-linked high-pressure belts over the Atlantic, low relief and coastlines aligned with latitude, and limited mountain barriers intensify aridity. It describes the region’s geology as an ancient continental “shield” capped in places by younger sediments and punctuated by volcanic massifs, with relief organized along broad east–west and north–south fault trends. Climate is defined by extreme dryness, sharp temperature swings, powerful dusty winds (including regional variants like sirocco and khamsin), highly irregular cloudbursts that do the real hydrologic work, and the adaptive strategies of sparse plants and animals; human presence is thin and concentrated in oases, and the desert forms a historical divide between Maghreb and Sudan. The text then sets the rules of desert landforming: endorheic basins, vast gravel plains (reg/serir), rock tables (hamadas), and dunes (ergs) whose shapes and stability reflect underlying fluvial topography; it stresses the joint roles of water and wind, the sorting of sands, and protective crusts that limit deflation. Finally, it turns to the past, arguing for the desert’s great antiquity (even petrified ancient ergs), while highlighting a wetter Quaternary phase when large rivers radiated from the Hoggar toward the Niger and the chotts, leaving fish, crocodile, and other tropical relics—yet still ending in closed basins rather than the sea. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76368,908,'Reading ease score: 68.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76368,670);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76369,520,'"Le mie cinque giornate :  Messina 28 dicembre 1908 - 1° gennaio 1909 by Espero" is a first-person eyewitness memoir written in the early 20th century. The book chronicles five agonizing days after the devastating Messina earthquake, focusing on a mother’s ordeal amid collapse, fire, hunger, and chaos as she struggles to reach her daughter and to survive.  The narrative opens with a tender goodnight between the narrator and her daughter Alfrida, then shatters as the quake brings down their home. With her husband Giovanni she fights through darkness and debris, only to find the child’s room vanished into a void. Through futile digging, indifferent passersby, a compassionate German sailor, and the steadfast help of their retainer Nino, she clings to a few rescued keepsakes while seeking aid. Forced onto a crowded ferry-boat, they witness the fire consuming the remnants of the Hôtel Trinacria—likely the place of Alfrida’s death—enduring nights of smoke, thirst, and hostility. Brief flashes of hope arrive via news of friends, scraps of food, and attempts to send messages to relatives. Ordered ashore, they brave a brutal, overcrowded train ride to Catania and finally find shelter with cousins, where care and a telegram confirming their other daughter’s safety offer a fragile, hard-won solace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76369,908,'Reading ease score: 41.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76369,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76369,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76369,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76370,520,'"The silver dial, volume 1 (of 3)" by Mary C. Rowsell is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set in old Strassburg, it follows the gifted young mathematician Conrad Dasipodius as he takes on the rebuilding of the cathedral’s famed clock, while navigating class boundaries, civic pride, and a perilous secret. Around him orbit Sabina von Steinbach, the Burgomaster’s gentle daughter he loves; Otto von Steinbach, his vain rival; and Radegund von Steinbach, a brilliant, willful artist. Themes of ambition, love, jealousy, and the cost of genius drive this city tale of craft and conscience.  The opening of the novel introduces Conrad’s rise under the mentorship of the Benedictine mechanist Chretei Herlin, the failure of Strassburg’s ancient cathedral clock, and the city’s contest to create a grand replacement. Though Herlin’s design is chosen, he soon appoints Conrad as his successor before dying, leaving the young man to lead the project. Meanwhile Conrad and Sabina fall quietly in love despite her father’s objections and Otto’s thwarted suit; they pledge to wait. Radegund’s celebrated painting hints at her fierce nature and interest in Conrad, and through the surgeon Bruno the reader learns of Conrad’s failing sight—a secret Radegund confronts him with at Herlin’s grave, driving him to despair as she vows to keep it hidden. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76370,908,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76370,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76370,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76370,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76371,520,'"The silver dial, volume 2 (of 3)" by Mary C. Rowsell is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set around the making of a great cathedral clock, it follows the mathematician Conrad Dasipodius, the gentle Sabina von Steinbach, the brilliant and volatile artist Radegund von Steinbach, and the vain Otto von Steinbach as pride, secrecy, and civic politics collide. The story turns on a concealed blindness, a lost letter, and the pressures of public fame, weaving romance and workshop intrigue into a historical drama.  The opening of this volume centers on a single letter and its disastrous consequences. Radegund, handling a message from Sabina to Conrad, leaves it unsealed; Otto snoops, discovers the revelation that Conrad is blind, and engineers a public reading in the Horologe workshop, provoking Conrad’s stumble and head injury and forcing him to confess his blindness to his stunned team. Shaken, Conrad meets Sabina in the street and mistakes her shocked silence for rejection; he later seeks care from his friend Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg, who knows Sabina had privately confirmed the truth but believes she still loves Conrad—yet the letter goes missing, and suspicions deepen. Isaac Habrecht quells a near-riot among the apprentices after Otto tries to turn them against their master, while across the city gossip explodes and the Town Council convenes in indignation, leaving Conrad’s reputation and the great clock project under threat. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76371,908,'Reading ease score: 68.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76371,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76371,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76371,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76372,520,'"The silver dial, volume 3 (of 3)" by Mary C. Rowsell is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Centred on the creation of Strasbourg Cathedral’s astronomical clock, it follows the blind mathematician-horologist Conrad Dasipodius as civic favor shifts, religious factions bristle, and rivalries threaten his work. Around him gather Burgomaster Niklaus von Steinbach’s household—steadfast Sabina, brilliant Radegund, and volatile Otto—alongside Bishop John, the Habrecht brothers, Dr. Bruno Wolkenberg, and the scheming Syndic Hackernagel. Expect artisanal craft, city politics, and tangled affections under the shadow of sabotage.  The opening of this final volume finds Dasipodius reinstated and rapidly restoring order at the Dial, intent on finishing the Horologe by St. Laurence’s day while Bishop John quietly flags the risk of foul play. As Kaspar Habrecht’s carved cock is mounted and Radegund’s paintings advance, Hackernagel’s public standing collapses and Otto drifts, prompting a tense, intimate supper at the Burgomaster’s: Sabina’s silent devotion and Dasipodius’s guarded warmth flare for a moment before Radegund’s abrupt entrance snuffs it out. The narrative then shifts to Hackernagel’s manipulations—pressing Otto to disable the clock’s crowing cock to wound the Habrechts—only for Otto to reject the scheme and physically subdue him, forcing a promise. The stage is set for a completed masterpiece beset by personal grievances and a very real threat of sabotage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76372,908,'Reading ease score: 78.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76372,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76372,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76373,520,'"Roma contemporanea" by Edmond About is a travelogue and social study written in the mid-19th century. It examines the Papal States—especially Rome—through concrete observations rather than political argument, portraying institutions, city life, religion, economics, and art with a sharp, ironic eye. The journey frames Rome within a wider Mediterranean context to highlight contrasts and reveal how everyday realities under papal rule compare with more modern urban models.  The opening of this work declares it is not a political pamphlet but a literary study drawn from a six‑month tour, noting that debate has given way to action and that Rome’s regime prides itself on immobility. The narrative then launches into a lively, data‑rich portrait of Marseille: the Canebière as a global gateway, the stark contrast between the clean, expanding “new city” and the fetid, crumbling old quarters, and the vast redevelopment around La Joliette. About sketches the Marseillais as energetic, risk‑taking, sociable, and indulgent—tolerant in business failures, exuberant in theaters and cafés, and locked in a comic rivalry with Aix. He surveys key industries (sugar refining, seed‑oil extraction from sesame, soap works, cork production), celebrates an exceptional businesswoman who runs major factories, and shows how steam navigation and the Messageries accelerate trade, especially in grain during poor harvests. He condenses a mini‑history of speculation, the cleanup of the local bourse, and the shift toward solid securities. Municipal ambition dominates: canals, ports, a cathedral, a bourse, a palace of justice, and an imperial residence, all financed with confidence in future growth. He closes this beginning with a tart critique of local artistic taste and museum management, segueing into an illustrative Bavarian anecdote about how civic pride often misguides cultural decisions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76373,908,'Reading ease score: 52.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76373,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76373,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76373,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76374,520,'"Korpi herää :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Kaarle Halme" is a one-act play written in the early 20th century. It dramatizes the rise of the temperance movement and a broader social awakening in rural Finland, showing how reformist ideas begin to challenge destructive habits and old ways.  The action unfolds in the Suokorpi farmhouse, where the family—father Simuna, son Heikki, and daughter Elina—grapple with the ruin brought by drinking. Perttu, a former moonshiner turned book peddler and temperance advocate, arrives with sober counsel just as news spreads that a drunken brawl at Hyyppölä’s dance has left Pohjan Jaska fatally injured. Mikko, Elina’s intended and Heikki’s friend, returns shattered, admits he likely struck the blow, and, in despair, tries to seize a weapon before Elina and the others calm him. He resolves to surrender to the authorities, bids a painful farewell to Elina, and the household, stirred by guilt and love, leans toward reform—signaling that the “forest” is indeed awakening. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76374,908,'Reading ease score: 54.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76374,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76375,520,'"Väärään hautaan : Hiljaisia kertomuksia" by Lauri Henrik Pohjanpää is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book offers quiet, intimate portraits of Finnish life where ordinary people confront faith, conscience, guilt, and mortality. Its vignettes follow figures such as a fiercely orthodox churchwoman, a guilt-burdened blacksmith, a dying grandmother, a fading old pastor, a despairing city clerk, and an idealistic antique dealer.  The opening of the book sketches several standalone tales. Kirkko-Mari, a devout seamstress, polices Lutheran orthodoxy from her church pew, interrogates visiting preachers, tends her own future grave, and spends Sundays in catechism and prayer. In Ruissäkki, the blacksmith Veeri secretly keeps a sack of rye in lean times and endures decades of corrosive guilt until a dramatic accident—his wife’s failed gunshot and stroke—shocks him into paying the debt and finding release. Suontaan Miinan salaisuus shows a dying grandmother who, urged by a radiant vision, musters her last strength to hätäkaste (emergency-baptize) her grandson Esko despite her hostile daughter-in-law. Unta portrays an elderly rovasti drifting in memory and childlike care, tenderly shepherded by family, longing only for his mother as they wheel him on a small, happy “journey.” Risti follows a man, ruined by an official call and bent on suicide, who stumbles into a Holy Week service; the words “And he bore his cross” kindle a conversion to suffer and live rather than die. Finally, the title story begins with Heikki Hiekkanen, an antique dealer, mistakenly buried in a common grave—an emblem of his lonely, misplaced life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76375,908,'Reading ease score: 52.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76375,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76376,520,'"Piraths Insel :  Roman" by Norbert Jacques is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows industrialist Peter Pirath as his marriage to the fierce, capricious Ree implodes, drawing him into public scandal and propelling him from a constricting bourgeois world toward an overseas venture linked to his coconut‑oil enterprise. With his pragmatic brother Hermann and the shady Larisch as foils, Peter wrestles with love, pride, and reputation under the gaze of a gossiping city. The story shifts from tense domestic drama to the promise of reinvention through travel and enterprise.  The opening of the novel traces Peter’s attempt to rein in household extravagance, only for Ree to shoot her prized horses rather than sell them, after which he lashes out and she leaves. Hermann soon witnesses Ree’s reckless liaison with Larisch on the heath, triggering Peter’s resolve to seek a divorce as the city revels in gossip and the lawyer readies a legal case; Ree alternates between defiance and attempts at reconciliation. Peter grows alienated and unproductive, while Hermann channels him into a purposeful escape: a long journey that doubles as a plan to expand their copra business from Ceylon to the South Seas; Larisch’s suicide hardens this break. The section closes with Peter embarking at Genoa, already turning from scandal to the wider world as shipboard life begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76376,908,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76376,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76376,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76377,520,'The movie boys at Seaside Park : or, The rival photo houses of the boardwalk by Victor Appleton is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows three enterprising boys—Frank Durham, Randy Powell, and Pepper “Pep” Smith—who try to launch a first-class motion picture playhouse at a bustling seaside resort, balancing daring rescues, business savvy, and looming rivalry.  The opening of the novel finds the boys scouting Seaside Park’s boardwalk, spotting a prime vacant building, and impressing the landlord after Frank leads a swift rescue of passengers from a burning motorboat. Their brave act brings them to the attention of wealthy Mrs. Carrington, whose offered backing—arranged through her attorney—solves their funding hurdle, while her feckless nephew Peter proves a nuisance and potential rival. Old ally Ben Jolly arrives (with ventriloquist Hal Vincent in tow), helps set up frugal living quarters, and the team splits duties: Frank and Vincent go to New York for films and equipment, Jolly to Fairlands for their old gear, and Randy and Pep prepare the venue. A final incident sees Pep heroically saving a runaway baby carriage, injuring his wrist, and being whisked by a millionaire motorist to a Brenton mansion for expert care, while Randy tracks him down—leaving the show’s launch underway but not yet open. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76377,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76377,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76377,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76377,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76377,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76378,520,'"The Movie Boys in Peril: or, Strenuous Days Along the Panama Canal" by Victor Appleton is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows moving-picture operators Blake Stewart and Joe Duncan as they head to the Panama Canal to capture dramatic scenes—especially the feared Culebra Cut landslides—while a courteous but puzzling Spanish companion, Vigues Alcando, joins them to learn the trade. Expect travel, engineering spectacle, and light intrigue woven into brisk, boyish action.  The opening of the book finds Blake and Joe on vacation when they spot a runaway horse and buggy headed for a broken bridge; after a high-speed chase on their new motorcycle, they pull the wrecked carriage back from the brink, saving driver Hank Duryee and a young Spaniard, Vigues Alcando. A delayed special-delivery letter from their employer, Mr. Hadley, reveals plans for the boys to film the Canal and a possibly imminent big slide at Culebra Cut, and Alcando—eager to learn moviemaking—asks to accompany them. In New York the boys get instructions from Hadley and Ringold, while Alcando’s behavior occasionally raises questions (a windblown note mentioning “big guns,” a secretive visitor, and a brass-bound ticking “alarm clock” he won’t explain). The trio sails for Colon; after a voyage marked by small suspicions and Alcando’s insistence on gratitude and helpfulness, they arrive in Panama and prepare to begin their filming. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76378,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76378,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76378,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76378,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76378,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76379,520,'"Catechism of the Locomotive" by Matthias N. Forney and Georg Kosak is a technical manual written in the late 19th century. It presents a clear, catechism-style guide to the principles, construction, and operation of steam locomotives for railroad personnel, mechanics, students, and interested readers. Expect plain language, abundant diagrams, and practical calculations covering thermodynamics, boilers, engines, valve gear, performance, and safety.  The opening of the work sets out transcriber notes, plates, and publishing details, then a preface explaining how a German catechism by Kosak inspired a translation that Forney ultimately rewrote into an American-focused handbook, with acknowledgments and a defense of the “catechism” title. The introduction defines the broad audience and the commitment to simple explanations, briefly teaching the algebraic symbols and drawing conventions used. The text then begins its Q&A: it explains the basic steam engine (cylinder, piston, slide-valve, eccentric, rocker, flywheel), the forces of air and steam (atmospheric pressure, boiling point, saturated vs. superheated steam, absolute vs. effective pressure, expansion laws), and the ideas of work, energy, and the mechanical equivalent of heat. It introduces indicator diagrams to read cylinder pressures, and develops slide-valve action through motion-curves, lead, lap, travel, release, and the effects of connecting-rod angularity. Finally, it starts the topic of expansive working of steam, showing how to compute mean pressure and why cutting off early saves fuel, touching on wire-drawing and the comparative economy of different cutoff points. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76379,908,'Reading ease score: 68.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76379,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76379,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76379,667);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76380,520,'"Ylistetty etelä" by Sulo-Weikko Pekkola is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. The book follows a Finnish traveler across Australia and the South Pacific, blending on-the-spot reportage with tart social critique and economic observation. Readers can expect vivid cityscapes, remote interiors, colonial ports, and encounters with settlers, officials, laborers, and scattered Finnish expatriates.  The opening of the book surveys Australia with a critical eye: the “White Australia” policy, high wages and protective tariffs, dependence on imports, showpiece railways, and the heavy human and financial costs of war. The narrator contrasts Australian identity with Britishness, pokes fun at ill-prepared immigrants, and stresses how much capital and know‑how were needed to make farming viable. He then turns to Sydney—its penal-colony origins, bar culture and a resoundingly failed prohibition referendum, aggressive policing of petty infractions, a monumental harbor bridge rising, lavish cinema organs, high prices, and a sprawling, spectacular harbor and surf beaches. A Sunday outing to Manly and Narrabeen yields keen natural observation and a comic episode with a small shark whose jawbones become a malodorous souvenir. The Finnish consulate serves as a community hub, where old-timers share tall tales, before the narrative widens to Australia’s sheep-and-wool economy: the rise of merino, boom-and-bust from droughts, environmental damage, rabbit plagues, dingoes and doggers, mechanized shearing, expert wool sorting, and global auctions with Japan an ascendant buyer. Finally, the traveler approaches New Caledonia through treacherous coral gates toward Noumea at night, ending with formalities at anchor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76380,908,'Reading ease score: 38.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76380,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76381,520,'"Ei niin salattua, ettei ilmi tulisi : Tositapahtumiin perustuva kertomus" is a true-event-based novella written in the late 19th century. It appears to be a moral-crime tale set in a small German town, following a generous clockmaker with a hidden past and his devoted foster son as a shocking murder and a fraught investigation test loyalty, justice, and conscience.  The opening of the novella introduces Selming, a respected and charitable mechanic–clockmaker living quietly in a South German town, who takes in an orphan, Herman, and trains him; the two form a deep, filial bond. Selming is found murdered, and suspicion falls on Herman after he leaves town early on a secret errand; fragments of a torn letter and a cache of money deepen suspicion. Brought before a conflicted judge, Herman refuses to reveal Selming’s private business, reacts in shock to a knife engraved “Hannu Lobe,” and finally, under torture, falsely confesses, then escapes from a secure cell with mysterious help before being recaptured and condemned. At the scaffold he proclaims his innocence, when an agitated man—Selming’s landlord—bursts in and confesses; he is revealed as Henrik Dorff, also known as Ditlev, an old criminal associate. The judge, now believing Herman, learns Selming’s secret past through papers: Selming was once Hannu Lobe, a repentant former thief whose life turned after a botched burglary, years as a soldier and clockmaker abroad, and a return devoted to restitution. Herman explains his journey and the torn letter were part of Selming’s discreet reparations, and that the prison break was aided by an unknown benefactor. The section closes with the judge disclosing that the landlord and Ditlev are the same man and the true murderer, clarifying the tangled case. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76381,908,'Reading ease score: 38.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76382,520,'"Durchs wilde Kurdistan" by Karl May is an adventure novel written in the late 19th century. Set among Kurdish tribes and the Yazidi community, it follows a European narrator known as the Emir and his loyal companion Hadschi Halef Omar as they navigate religious rites, tribal politics, and looming conflict with Ottoman forces. The story blends travel, intrigue, and tactically clever confrontations in a rugged, mountainous setting.  The opening of the novel places the protagonists in the sacred valley of Sheikh Adi during a great Yazidi festival, vividly describing torchlit rites, music, and a symbolic rooster ceremony while tensions rise over an impending Ottoman assault. The Emir scouts mysterious lights, discovers an Ottoman mountain-artillery detachment, and—using deception and swift riders—captures the gunners and their four pieces without bloodshed, then has Yazidi cannoneers don Turkish uniforms to bait the enemy. As Ottoman troops under Miralai Omar Amed enter the valley, they are hit by their own reclaimed guns; the Emir briefly confronts the furious commander, brandishing imperial travel permits to avoid arrest, and narrowly dodges a shot. Parallel threads include Ali Bey’s disciplined preparations, the hidden evacuation to Idiz, Pir Kamek’s ominous talk of sacrifice, and the comic bravado of Buluk Emini Ifra, ending with the battle about to intensify. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76382,908,'Reading ease score: 85.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76382,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76382,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76382,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76383,520,'"The Norse discoverers of America : the Wineland sagas translated & discussed" by G. M. Gathorne-Hardy is a scholarly historical study and translation written in the early 20th century. It presents the Vinland sagas in English with commentary, weighing their credibility and geography to argue where Norse explorers likely landed in North America. The focus is on Eric the Red’s family, Leif Erikson, and Thorfinn Karlsefni, using chronologies, genealogies, and notes to orient general readers while engaging scholarly debates.  The opening of the work explains its wartime delay, surveys recent scholarship, and sets a clear purpose: to offer literal, modern-language translations of the sagas and a reasoned discussion of their historical value, avoiding romanticized “saga” diction. It outlines the sources (primarily the Saga of Eric the Red, Hauk’s Book, and the Flatey Book), the decision to weave them into a single coherent narrative, and provides a chronological and genealogical framework. The translated story then begins: Eric the Red, outlawed in Iceland, explores and settles Greenland; Bjarni Herjulfson, seeking his father, is blown off course and sights unknown wooded lands; Gudrid’s lineage and her famed encounter with a sibyl are introduced; Leif voyages to Norway, accepts King Olaf Tryggvason’s mission to spread Christianity, then deliberately sails west, naming Helluland, Markland, and Wineland, and rescues shipwrecked sailors on his return. Thorvald explores further, names Keelness, and dies from a skirmish, while Thorstein’s attempt fails, ending with his death and a prophecy over Gudrid’s future. Karlsefni arrives, marries Gudrid, and leads a larger expedition that passes Helluland and Markland to Straumsfjord and Hóp, finds wild wheat and grapes, trades red cloth with Skraelings, then clashes with them—highlighted by Freydis’s fierce defiance—before deciding the land’s promise is outweighed by constant danger. The excerpt closes as they withdraw north toward Straumsfjord, with hints of differing outcomes for the split parties. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76383,908,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76383,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76383,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76383,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76384,520,'"Charity''s birthday text by Agnes Giberne" is a Victorian-era children''s moral tale with a Christian devotional theme. Centered on the virtue of charity—understood as patient, Christlike love—the story uses a family drama to teach perseverance, forgiveness, and kindness in the face of teasing and grief.  The narrative follows gentle Charity Mitchel, who receives an illuminated text—“Charity suffereth long, and is kind”—on her tenth birthday, only to lose her father that evening. She and her younger brother Edwin move to their uncle and aunt in the country, where their cousins include the affectionate Lottie and two rough, teasing boys, George and Wilfred. Struggling with her temper as the boys goad Edwin and herself, Charity learns to pray for help and tries to “overcome evil with good.” During an outing the boys’ unkind prank leads to her fall and a painful, lingering injury, which brings them deep remorse. George apologizes, and Charity points him to the meaning behind her birthday text and to faith in Christ. Her steady patience and kindness win the boys over, soften the household, and bring peace to the family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76384,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76384,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76384,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76385,520,'"A golden thread by Marian Isabel Hurrell" is a children’s novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a close-knit family and their friends in a seaside village as they try to save their home, weaving themes of courage, kindness, and quiet Christian faith into everyday adventures.  Eileen Bannister and her siblings—Teddy, Nora, and Frank—vow to help their father pay off the mortgage on The Gables. They befriend editor Derrick Charlton, who encourages Eileen’s writing, and cross paths with gruff Mr. Grimwood and his troubled nephew, Dick Woodbridge. Frank earns “promotion” after rescuing boys on a cliff; the children do a day’s garden work for Grimwood; Teddy is wrongly accused of a false fire alarm until Dick bravely confesses; and Dick later saves Nora from a train at a level crossing. In London, Eileen and Nora meet Miss Silver and little Cissie Vane, who is revealed to be Charlton’s lost niece. A charity sale prompts Frank to sacrifice his beloved puppy, a gift returned through Dick’s efforts. At a moonlit winter picnic, the children’s father arrives home just in time to pull Dick from broken ice. Dick’s earlier letter about the mortgage inspires a benefactor to clear the debt, and the family celebrate Christmas together, grateful for the “golden thread” of love, faith, and friendship that has guided them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76385,908,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76385,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76385,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76385,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76386,520,'"Household words, no. 307, February 9, 1856 :  A weekly journal by Charles Dickens" by Charles Dickens is a periodical issue written in the mid-19th century. It offers a varied mix of reportage, social commentary, fiction, poetry, and short informative pieces typical of a Victorian literary magazine. The likely topics range from travel observation and maritime hazard to urban reform, military organization, and cultural curiosities, alongside a serialized tale and a lyric poem.  The opening of this issue moves from a vivid travel-and-report piece on the Sulina mouth of the Danube—stormbound ships, fatal wrecks, cholera scares, and a forceful call to remedy the hazardous bar—to a reformist essay urging cooperative lodgings for milliners’ day-workers, backed by a model home in Manchester Street. It then launches a serial, “Two College Friends,” introducing studious Arthur Hayning and warm-hearted Winnington Harvey on a bleak rectory moor, setting up rival affections (Lucy and Ellen Warleigh), rising class tensions, and Arthur’s secret nocturnal dig after a telling geological clue. A brief poem, “Sorrow and My Heart,” personifies grief’s demand upon the heart. A substantial comparative article contrasts rigorously trained French staff officers with English staff appointments driven by influence rather than education. The “Chips” miscellany examines Russia’s strained finances in wartime and recounts the discovery of a thornback’s spine during a dean’s burial at Christ Church, linking it to monastic kitchens; the number closes by beginning “Little Saint Zita,” signposted with a mention of Jacques Callot’s stark saintly etchings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76386,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Household_Words',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76386,908,'Reading ease score: 63.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76386,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76386,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76386,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76387,520,'"Pig iron :  Short stories by Dudrea Parker" is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book turns on love, temptation, conscience, and the costs of choice, following characters who collide with desire and duty in modern American life.  In An Ephemeral Love, Baltimore lumberman Walter Gary risks everything on a clever shipping plan, wins prosperity, and plans to marry Betty, who is simultaneously drawn to the magnetic Jack; on the brink of betrayal, the influenza epidemic claims Walter, and Betty, seared by loss, renounces her infatuation and holds fast to his memory. The White Petal shifts to a gothic rescue: John Constable returns to find young Ellen, daughter of his lost friends, imprisoned by her predatory uncle Albert, escapes with her through the night after a chilling “thirteenth” stroke of the clock, and witnesses Albert’s self-destruction; Constable becomes her guardian, and their bond blossoms into love. The Reporter follows a novice journalist who intrudes on Professor Symonds after his wife’s elopement ends in double tragedy; moved by his candor and pain, she refuses to exploit the scandal, and their shared integrity leads to a tender, restorative marriage. Across the three tales, Parker traces how crisis burns away illusion, revealing character, compassion, and the possibility of redeemed love. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76387,908,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76387,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76387,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76387,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76388,520,'"Kaksi kuningatarta :  Kolminäytöksinen murhenäytelmä" by Lauri Haarla is a three-act tragedy written in the early 20th century. Set in Naples during the waning years of the Black Death, it stages a moral and political duel between Queen Johanna and the pilgrim-mystic Birgitta Birgerintytär, while rival factions and the Orsini family circle the throne. Into this courtly tempest strides the audacious Swedish knight Kaarle, whose reckless charm ensnares both the queen and the young lady-in-waiting Bianca Maria, as the threat of Durazzo’s Charles gathers outside the walls. The play explores power, guilt, repentance, and desire as private passions collide with public ambition.  The opening of the play presents Johanna’s glittering yet brittle court, where Nolan’s Count warns of plague and rebellion, a troubadour mocks, and Alvastra’s Petrus ushers in Birgitta with her children, Kaarin and Birger. Birgitta confronts the queen with stark accusations—complicity in husbands’ deaths, rampant sensuality—and urges a barefoot pilgrimage to the Holy Sepulchre; Johanna wavers, promising “when the wind turns north.” Kaarle bursts onstage brash and magnetic, defies his mother Birgitta, and is lured by Johanna into her secret chambers, even as he later falls genuinely for Bianca Maria and plots flight with her. Meanwhile Birger schemes to bind Kaarle to the queen for power, Kaarin gently binds Nuori Orsini to a penitential quest, and a jealous Johanna, catching a glimpse of Kaarle and Bianca Maria together, quietly orders her taster to prepare poisoned oysters for a private “celebration.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76388,908,'Reading ease score: 46.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76388,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76389,520,'"Kuvaton kuvakirja" by H. C. Andersen is a collection of lyrical vignettes written in the mid-19th century. Framed as nightly visits from the Moon to a poor young painter, it presents brief, poetic scenes from around the world that he “paints” with words. The pieces dwell on love, sorrow, faith, art, and the small marvels of everyday life, with the Moon and the painter serving as a gentle guiding pair.  The opening of this work introduces the lonely painter who finds companionship in the Moon and vows to record its nightly tales as a “picture book without pictures.” Night by night, the Moon shares swift, empathetic glimpses: an Indian girl sending a lamp down the Ganges for her beloved, a child seeking forgiveness from a chicken, a dying woman forced to the window, makeshift theaters and sharp-tongued critics, memories of revolution in Paris, Greenland dances and sea burial, the haunted grace of Pompeii and Venice, emigrants on the heath, a grieving clown, a chimney sweep exulting atop a roof, and quiet scenes of Rome’s ruins and desert caravans. These short sketches shift rapidly in place and tone, building a mosaic of human joy and grief as viewed from above. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76389,908,'Reading ease score: 41.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76389,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76389,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76390,520,'"Matrimonis a Montserrat ó Buscant la perduda : Anada en dos actes i en…." by Conrad Roure is a Catalan comedic play written in the late 19th century. Set during a lively excursion to the Montserrat monastery, it centers on two mismatched newlyweds—Bonifaci with the young Cándida, and the young Martí with the older Pona—and on Miquel, a peasant anxiously searching for his wife Roseta. The tone is musical and playful, with choruses, dances, and gentle satire of excursionists and petty officials as jealousy and flirtation spark comic frictions.  The opening of the play begins in a crowded railway carriage bound for Montserrat, where the travelers sing, banter, and we meet the couples, the jovial Narcís, and Miquel, who admits he has “lost” Roseta. At the monastery, lodging is arranged side by side, Pona’s jealousy flares, and by moonlight at the hermitage of the Apòstols a bumbling town council from the Bruch provides comic relief before everyone dances a sardana. In the restaurant scenes, excursionists toast local wine while a photographer fusses over staging a group portrait; Cándida performs a waltz, Pona needles Martí, and Miquel ruins one shot by shouting “Roseta!” as he keeps searching. On the paths to the Cova and toward Sant Jeroni, a chorus of mariners sings in a panoramic interlude, and Narcís finally brings Miquel reassuring news via a trader’s message that Roseta is well, as the party prepares to continue its outing—some on donkeys, others on foot. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76390,908,'Reading ease score: 88.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76390,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76390,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76391,520,'"Fairy dreams; or, Wanderings in Elf-land" by Jane G. Austin is a collection of fairy tales written in the mid-19th century. The tales weave quests, enchantments, and nature spirits into moral, gently romantic adventures, following characters like Prince Rudolf, Mabel the charcoal-burner’s daughter, the solitary Ernest, and the picture-dreaming Claude as they seek love, truth, and wonder.  The opening of the collection presents four standalone stories. In Prince Rudolf’s adventure, a sage equips him with a pure veil and a diamond-tipped spear to test enchanted “flower” maidens; false splendor (tulip, cactus, lily) collapses under the veil, until the true rose maiden, revealed and awakened by the spear, becomes his companion. König Tolv’s Bride follows Mabel of the Hartz mountains, whose midsummer-night yearning leads to a supposed elf-king; with a hermit’s blessing the “king” proves a noble count, and she weds into a loving human home as her grim father vanishes. The Gray Cat and the Cave of the Winds tells of Ernest, who shelters a gray cat that transforms at midnight into Princess Phelia; he steals a magic flute from the Four Winds, lulls gnomes, recovers her stolen crown, and restores her, winning her hand. At the start of The Frost-Maiden, Claude grows up entranced by winter’s window pictures of a distant palace and a lone girl beneath a fir; as a man he ranges the world toward the far north, determined to reach the Frost-King’s realm, where the excerpt breaks with him stepping into the deadly cold in pursuit of his vision. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76391,908,'Reading ease score: 66.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76392,520,'"Physical Science in the Time of Nero: being a translation of the Quaestiones Naturales of Seneca" by John Clarke is a translation with scholarly commentary written in the early 20th century. It presents an English rendering of Seneca’s ancient treatise on natural philosophy, with an interpretive introduction and scientific notes, explaining Roman-era ideas about meteorology, astronomy, geology, and their long influence on medieval thought.  The opening of the book sets out Clarke’s aim to provide English readers with a fresh, accessible translation, noting that earlier English renderings were outdated, and arguing that Seneca’s treatise was the classical world’s final major statement on physical speculation and a key scientific authority through the Middle Ages. It acknowledges help from several contemporaries, especially Sir Archibald Geikie, whose notes relate Seneca’s topics to modern science, and it outlines the seven-book contents on meteors and halos, thunder and lightning, waters and the Nile, snow and hail, winds, earthquakes, and comets. The introduction then sketches Seneca’s life—his education, exile, rise as Nero’s tutor and statesman, moral struggles at court, and Stoic death—followed by a survey of his writings and the place, date, and aims of the Quaestiones Naturales. It discusses the work’s composite state, probable chronology, and uneven arrangement, explains Seneca’s method of blending ethical lessons with physical inquiry, and briefly reviews key sources and predecessors such as Aristotle, Theophrastus, and Plutarch. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76392,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naturales_quaestiones',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76392,908,'Reading ease score: 67.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76392,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76392,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76392,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76393,520,'"English ways and by-ways :  Being the letters of John and Ruth Dobson written…." by Leighton Parks is a humorous epistolary travelogue written in the early 20th century. Framed as lively letters from two young Americans touring England before the Great War, it blends motoring adventures with sharp, affectionate sketches of English society, religion, and class. The likely focus is a light, witty comparison of English and American ways, aiming to entertain while gently promoting mutual understanding.  The opening of this travelogue follows John, an overworked American clergyman, and his wife Ruth as a small inheritance prompts a long-dreamed European holiday—by motorcar. John endures a comic, hair‑raising driving “education,” they buy a “fool‑proof” Frontenac with a self-starter, sail on a German liner (complete with a Sunday service and reflections on national rivalries), and receive the car at Tilbury amid talk of docks and durability. Their journey up the Great North Road brings wrong-side-of-the-road blunders, a crumpled mudguard, cathedral visits, and literary musings, before a Yorkshire stay lets Ruth contrast smooth-running English households, nannies, and dinner rituals with American habits. A near-fatal downhill dash (caused by grabbing the fourth-speed lever instead of the brake) yields a key tip—use engine braking on descents—while Sunday brings an offended exit from a sermon on Jael and redemption in a tender evensong. The section closes with a Tory defense of the Established Church and a radiant slice of rural England: a huntsman “walking” hounds, a Derby-bred mount, a sheepdog at work, and irresistible cottages and gardens. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76393,908,'Reading ease score: 77.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76393,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76393,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76393,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76394,520,'"The love of an uncrowned queen :  Sophie Dorothea, consort of George I, and her…." by W. H. Wilkins is a historical biography written in the early 20th century. It traces the life of Sophie Dorothea of Celle—her rise from disputed birth to duchess’s daughter, her ill-fated love with Count Königsmarck as revealed in their letters, and the court intrigues of Celle and Hanover that shaped her fate.  The opening of the work combines a documentary preface with the first chapters of narrative. Wilkins recounts how he discovered and authenticated Sophie Dorothea’s and Königsmarck’s love-letters (chiefly at Lund, with further caches in Berlin and likely among the Guelph papers), and notes scholarly defenses of their genuineness before outlining his revisions. The story then steps back to the House of Brunswick: George William’s rejection of a political match with Princess Sophia of the Palatinate, Sophia’s marriage instead to Ernest Augustus, and George William’s morganatic union with the clever and ambitious Eléonore d’Olbreuse, who wins status for herself and their daughter, Sophie Dorothea. We see Eléonore’s calculated advance (imperial legitimization, new titles, and alliances), the hostile rivalry of Duchess Sophia, early mention of the youthful Königsmarck at Celle, and, in Hanover, the rise of Madame Platen and a corrupt, Versailles-like court—setting the political and personal stage for the drama to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76394,908,'Reading ease score: 74.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76394,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76394,664);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76394,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76394,661);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76395,520,'"Le culte de l''incompétence" by Émile Faguet is a political essay written in the early 20th century. It argues that mass democracies, intent on equality and direct control, displace specialized competence with passion-driven representation, leading parliaments to govern, administer, and legislate poorly. The work contrasts this drift with an ideal of informed, moderate, and detached lawmaking and warns of a polity that politicizes every function and churns out reactive, short-lived laws.  The opening of the essay situates the book within a contemporary studies series, then revisits Montesquieu’s idea that each regime has a guiding principle to claim that democracy’s is the worship of incompetence. Faguet illustrates how popular sovereignty erodes specialization: Athens replaced trained judges with paid jurors; modern democracies evolved from filtered elections to direct representation that rewards passion over expertise, producing “politicians” dependent on the crowd. He shows the legislature usurping executive and administrative roles, dictating appointments and decisions, distrusting inamovibility, and turning governance into partisan oversight, while genuine competence retreats to private professions that the state seeks to nationalize; even socialism, he argues, would slide toward despotism. He then sketches the truly competent legislator—well informed about a people’s temperament, moderate, and free of passion—favoring insinuation over command and prudence in changing laws, before concluding that democracy instead elects impassioned, uninformed lawmakers who pass episodic, event-driven measures like a daily newspaper. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76395,908,'Reading ease score: 61.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76396,520,'La Légende des siècles tome II by Victor Hugo is a collection of poems written in the late 19th century. The work ranges across myth, history, and allegory to stage humanity’s struggle with fate, evil, and justice. It blends visionary meditations with narrative episodes, often casting towering figures—saints, tyrants, and knights—as emblems in a vast moral panorama.  The opening of the collection sets a stark contrast between nihilism and hope before plunging into epic action. In L’Épopée du Ver, the Worm speaks as the voice of decay and annihilation, boasting its power over kings, religions, and even the stars; Le Poëte au Ver de Terre answers that the soul, truth, and virtue elude its grasp. Les Chevaliers Errants summons the austere grandeur of wandering paladins who defend right in ages of fear. The narrative Le Petit Roi de Galice follows ten Asturian uncles who abduct the boy-king Nuño to kill or confine him; Roland arrives, rebukes them, cuts down several (including Pacheco, Froïla, and Rostabat), holds a mountain pass alone, and sends the child safely back to Compostela, where the boy vows to rule justly, while Ruy le Subtil flees. The section Eviradnus then begins: the Alsatian knight overhears a dark plot by Sigismond and Ladislas, mounts to intervene, and is introduced as a relentless champion of the oppressed, alongside a vivid evocation of the storm-ravaged ruin of Corbus. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76396,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_L%C3%A9gende_des_si%C3%A8cles https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_L%C3%A9gende_des_si%C3%A8cles',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76396,908,'Reading ease score: 73.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76397,520,'"Where the Battle Was Fought" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set on a haunted Tennessee battlefield during Reconstruction, it follows the proud but ruined General Vayne and his lively daughter Marcia as their isolated, mortgaged household intersects with Captain John Estwicke, a Union officer unsettled by the ground’s grim memories. In parallel, a financier, Maurice Brennett, and his improvident associate Travis scheme around an inheritance tied to Antoinette St. Pierre, stirring legal and moral peril. Expect a blend of Gothic atmosphere, postwar social tension, and intrigue over identity, honor, and property.  The opening of the novel lingers on a ghost-rumored battlefield and a shattered mansion where General Vayne, Marcia, and Aunt Kirby receive Estwicke, whose uneasy reaction to “Fort Despair” hints at a hidden past; a ferryman later mistakes him for a dead Confederate officer who once burned the bridge there. In town, Estwicke befriends a young lawyer, Meredith, then catches a card-sharp cheating during a poker game at a hotel; with an unloaded pistol he forces the cheat to disgorge the winnings, only to reject the money in disgust. Meanwhile Brennett, captivated by Estwicke’s fierce presence, turns to urgent business: his partner Travis has been cut out of expected funds by a codicil favoring Antoinette St. Pierre, so they plot to regain value by pressing her to swap her city houses (clouded by a remainder-man’s title, John Doane Fortescue) for Travis’s plantations, or even to marry her, sweetening the approach with a storied family heirloom. These threads set a mood of ruin and calculation, establishing the central characters, tensions, and schemes without yet resolving them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76397,908,'Reading ease score: 71.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76397,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76397,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76397,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76398,520,'"Women: an inquiry by Willa Muir" is a philosophical feminist essay written in the early 20th century. The book explores whether there is an essential difference between women and men beyond social conditioning, proposing that women’s distinctive creative power lies in fostering human growth and moral life, while men excel at shaping conscious systems and forms.  The essay moves from exposing men’s contradictory view of women (feared and revered) to a core hypothesis drawn from motherhood: women’s energy is more engaged with unconscious life (growth, intuition, emotion), while men’s is more engaged with conscious life (form, reason, abstraction). From this, it argues that women create individuals and inner harmony, and men build systems—both necessary and complementary. It critiques conventional morality as a masculine tool for preserving systems through impersonal codes and punishment, urging women to develop independent, psychological, and religiously grounded values rooted in creative love and a fearless grasp of human experience. The book calls on women to know themselves, reject restrictive “purity” ideals, and carry their womanhood into public life where systems touch individuals (e.g., welfare, justice, reform). It considers art as a meeting of unconscious vitality and conscious form, suggesting women thrive in arts close to lived personality and concrete experience, and closes by urging a rethinking of women’s aims and education so that both sexes can cooperate as equal, complementary creators of human life and its institutions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76398,908,'Reading ease score: 47.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76399,520,'"The way of a man: a story of the new woman" by Thomas Dixon Jr. is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Ellen West, a brilliant New York feminist editor whose attacks on marriage and advocacy of female independence collide with the allure of love and power as she attracts the author Randolph Field, the millionaire Edwin Brown, and the young journalist Ralph Manning. The book probes the clash between the New Woman’s ideals—sexual, economic, and spiritual autonomy—and the old order’s claims of romance, marriage, and possession.  The opening of the novel finds Ellen hosting a triumphant Fifth Avenue reception after her election as a reform club’s president, where her manifesto against marriage and for “sex freedom” sets the tone. Field, her realist neighbor, confesses love on the roof and is coolly refused. Brown arrives uninvited; in a candid rooftop interview he first offers a lavish “free alliance,” then marriage, and is rejected on both counts. Ellen is then unexpectedly smitten with Manning, her friend’s Southern nephew, whose earnest ambition and freshness disarm her skepticism. As they meet nightly, she falls hard, while he wins a newspaper post and returns with a ring fashioned from his mother’s earrings, proposing ardently on the starlit roof. She reciprocates his love but refuses marriage on principle, arguing for a free, self-directed union, and their debate over love, freedom, and the “home” swells into a tense impasse as the opening section ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76399,908,'Reading ease score: 85.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76399,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76399,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76399,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76400,520,'"Evelyn Manwaring: A Tale of Hampton Court Palace" by Greville John Chester is a novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on the grace-and-favour world of Hampton Court and the storied, troubled Manwaring family, where pride of lineage collides with love, loyalty, and scandal. The main figures include gentle, steadfast Evelyn, her proud genealogist father, her soldier-brother Lionel, her brilliant younger brother Wilfred, and kind neighbors like Miss Sarah Strong and the Duchess of Ribblesdale.  The opening of the story follows Evelyn’s fog-shrouded arrival at Hampton Court to take over Lady Glengriskin’s rooms, her private collapse of grief, and her rescue by her warm-hearted neighbor, Miss Sarah Strong, who feeds, comforts, and promises to present her to the Duchess. The narrative then turns to Holmcastle Manor in North Lancashire: the Manwarings’ ancient seat, the Squire’s consuming obsession with pedigree, and the children’s upbringing—Evelyn beloved as “the Lily of Arrow Dale,” Lionel a rising officer, and Wilfred a gifted youth. Sent to the tutor Dr. Massenger, Wilfred bonds with the young Duke of Ribblesdale and clashes with the slippery Augustus Cubleigh; after a visit to a local collector, stolen gold coins are “found” in Wilfred’s waistcoat, and he is falsely branded a thief. Cast out by his implacable father despite the Rector’s plea and Evelyn’s love, Wilfred leaves home in despair and disappears under an assumed name. As searches reveal he has sailed abroad, Massenger arrives at Holmcastle to confess that Wilfred’s innocence is proved and Cubleigh was the culprit, leaving the Squire devastated. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76400,908,'Reading ease score: 61.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76400,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76400,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76401,520,'"A survey of modernist poetry" by Laura Riding and Robert Graves is a work of literary criticism written in the early 20th century. It explores why modernist poems look and read the way they do, how they challenge the “plain reader,” and what new techniques—of form, diction, punctuation, and layout—aim to achieve. The authors argue that experiment serves clarity of experience, not obscurity for its own sake, and that readers must meet the poems with more active, precise attention.  The opening of the book sets up the debate between modernist innovation and the plain reader’s expectations, using E. E. Cummings as a test case. It closely reads his short “Sunset” piece to show how spacing, sound-patterns, and omission create a concentrated experience, then reconstructs a conventional version to prove how banality and cliché return when the innovations are removed. From there it weighs French Symbolist influences (Mallarmé, Rimbaud, Valéry), Japanese suggestiveness, and the problem of form versus subject-matter, arguing for organic design over fixed molds; it illustrates flexible structure with Hart Crane and biblical parallelism, and contrasts Eliot’s The Waste Land, whose transitions bind a unified whole, with Tennyson’s In Memoriam, whose uniform stanza masks digression. A chapter on punctuation shows how Cummings’ typography encodes meaning and guards against misreading, then compares that editorial vulnerability to Shakespeare’s Sonnet 129, demonstrating how modernized punctuation and spelling can flatten Shakespeare’s dense, interwoven sense. Finally, the start of the next chapter frames modernism’s “unpopularity,” and analyzes another Cummings piece (a jolting train scene) to show how unorthodox layout precisely transmits movement and perception. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76401,908,'Reading ease score: 52.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58429,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laura_Riding');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76402,520,'"Olimpia; ossia, L''orfana della Selleide: romanzo" by Adolfo Mezzanotte is a novel written in the early 19th century. Set among the Suliote mountains of Epirus, it blends historical melodrama and romantic feeling, following the orphan Olimpia, her eremitic uncle Atanasio, and the young warrior Demetrio against the backdrop of Greek resistance to Ottoman rule. Themes of liberty, piety, and love intertwine as a tender attachment grows between Olimpia and Demetrio amid communal battle, devotion, and loss.  The opening of the novel evokes the Suliotes’ stubborn freedom, then narrows to Olimpia’s origins: her father Alessio is disgraced for a retreat, dies in illness, and her mother Evantìa perishes giving birth, leaving the child to the care of the hermit-uncle Atanasio. Olimpia grows in a cliffside hermitage, charitable and devout. As Ali Pasha attacks, Demetrio leads a daring counterstrike that routs the Turks; during the victory rites he and Olimpia fall in love at first sight. Their separation breeds lovesickness until a chance encounter in the forest, a shy flight, a letter left by the spring, and Atanasio’s blessing bring them together, with marriage planned for the spring festival of roses. A sudden storm then claims Atanasio’s life in a torrent; after retrieving his body and burying him, the lovers vow to wed as he wished, and Olimpia goes under the protection of Demetrio’s kind mother Eutimia. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76402,908,'Reading ease score: 34.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76402,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76402,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76403,520,'"Provença :  Poems selected from Personae, Exultations, and Canzoniere of Ezra…" by Ezra Pound is a collection of poetry compiled in the early 20th century. The book brings together dramatic monologues, lyrics, and formal experiments that channel medieval Provence and Italy through modernist craft. Its likely topic is the renewal of old songs and courtly themes—love, war, piety, and fame—through vivid personae and finely wrought forms.  The volume is arranged in three parts. Personae stages bold voices—troubadours, mystics, warriors, and wanderers—speaking from settings that range from Provençal courts and Italian roads to ash woods, sea caves, and modern London; poems like “La Fraisne,” “Cino,” “Na Audiart,” “Sestina: Altaforte,” “Ballad of the Goodly Fere,” and “Piccadilly” show desire, revolt, and spiritual hunger in archaic yet urgent diction. Exultations mixes litany and flare—Venetian night prayers, martial exultation, portraits of artists, poetic self-possession in “Histrion,” and visionary pieces like “Paracelsus in Excelsis,” alongside adaptations (Lope de Vega’s lullaby, a Greek epigram) and laments and albas in Provençal manner. Canzoniere presents strict studies in form—octaves, sonnets, ballate, and canzoni modeled on Arnaut Daniel, Dante, and Cavalcanti—where light, sea, angels, and the “Lady” organize longing and praise, culminating in an epilogue to Guido Cavalcanti and notes that gloss the medieval sources. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76403,908,'Reading ease score: 82.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76403,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76403,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76404,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophi%C3%A6_Naturalis_Principia_Mathematica',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76404,908,'Reading ease score: 10.3 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76404,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76404,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76405,520,'"Lahjoitusmailla : Historiallinen näytelmä" by Santeri Ivalo is a historical play written in the early 20th century. Set in 1830s Valkjärvi, it portrays peasants caught between conscience, law, and power as the Veikkola manor enforces “donation land” contracts and a disputed church build stalls. The drama centers on the hard-edged steward Hukka, an aging pastor who refuses to bend, the advocate Koironen, the forthright Harsia and Holttinen, the wavering Kyllästinen family (with Kaija and their daughter Siljo), and the upward-striving Laihanen.  The opening of the play unfolds on the church hill: the old pastor mourns the halted construction and declines to sign a lease for his tiny plot despite Hukka’s pressure. Villagers arrive with shingles to roof the half-built church, while Kyllästinen’s household wavers over Siljo’s marriage—breaking with Laihanen, who has signed the manor’s contract, and circling toward Holttinen’s Antti. Koironen, a crafty local advocate, claims to hold documents proving long-held peasant ownership, urges tact—yield in small things, refuse the lease—and collects funds to appeal. Manor officials interrupt, order the men to the estate, and threaten force; the community resolves to appear but not sign, tempers flare in the tavern, and reports come back that the men endured beatings rather than put their marks to the contracts, as private jealousies (Laihanen, Siljo, Antti) and Marketta’s ominous chant darken the mood. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76405,908,'Reading ease score: 54.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76405,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76406,520,'"Tenhotar" by Hans von Kahlenberg is an epistolary novel written in the early 20th century. Through a correspondence between a romantic country nobleman and a skeptical city writer, it examines love, purity, and modern moral unrest. The story centers on Achim von Wustrow’s idealized devotion to the young Mathilde and the counterpoint of Herbert Gröndahl’s worldly, often cynical entanglements with fashionable Berlin society.  The opening of the novel unfolds as alternating letters: Achim writes rapturously of first love, recounting a chaste mountain encounter with Mathilde, his respectful courtship within her family, and his resolve to be worthy of her innocence, even pressing for an early marriage. In sharp contrast, Herbert narrates how two schoolgirls seek him out, then begins a clandestine affair with one he nicknames “Hempukka,” dissecting her family’s ambitions and his own jaded attitudes while exposing the hypocrisies of urban life. Achim dreams of shared readings, patriotic duty, orderly home life, and fatherhood, guarding Mathilde from dubious influences. Herbert, meanwhile, oscillates between indulgence and moral disgust, turning their liaison into a study of decadence. This early exchange sets up the novel’s central tension between idealism and cynicism, country virtue and city corruption. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76406,908,'Reading ease score: 44.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76406,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76406,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76407,520,'"Telephone troubles :  Their location and remedy by Edward Mahon Wev" is a practical technical manual written in the early 20th century. Aimed at telephone installers and repairmen, it focuses on locating and fixing faults in subscriber sets and switchboards, explaining the behavior of ringers, transmitters, receivers, induction coils, condensers, hooks, cords, grounds, and wiring.  The book proceeds from single direct-line sets to two-party and four-party instruments, then to private-branch-exchange switchboards, showing how to diagnose symptoms like silent or weak bells, steady bridges, dead receivers, poor transmission, and cross-talk. It teaches systematic tests with a head receiver and test lamp, short-circuiting condensers, isolating cords and coil windings, checking polarity and reversals, assessing grounds and earth currents, and adjusting ringers and relays. The switchboard section covers stuck or non-operating drops, battery-feed and trunk poling, cord-circuit opens and shorts, relay and holding-coil checks, and causes of inadvertent ringing. It closes with clear inspection routines for subscriber stations and new installations, emphasizing neat wiring, solid connections, correct protection, and reliable operation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76407,908,'Reading ease score: 71.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76407,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76407,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76408,520,'"Willy''s travels on the railroad : Intended for young children" by Mrs. Marcet is a children''s didactic tale written in the mid-19th century. It follows an inquisitive boy, Willy, whose railway journey with his parents turns into a string of lively lessons about steam power, travel, manners, industry, and nature. Through meetings with fellow passengers and townspeople and visits to an inn, an arboretum, a factory, a farm, and a country house, the story blends gentle moral guidance with clear, practical explanations aimed at young readers.  The opening of the story finds six-year-old Willy at a bustling station, learning that locomotives run by steam and marveling at speed, perspective, carriage classes, and the eerie whistle before a dark tunnel prompts talk of shafts and construction. A vignette with a spoiled child and a stern but fair old lady leads to a lesson in self-control and rewards, then a stop at Wolverton and a discussion of the “infirmities” of old and young. Moving to an open third-class carriage, Willy befriends a market girl bound for Derby who speaks of her blind mother’s hoped-for cure and the public Arboretum created by Joseph Strutt; at an inn he learns how paying “a little more” works and practises honesty and restraint while fruit picking with the landlady’s daughter. An evening at the Arboretum reunites him with the market girl’s family; the children play, make daisy chains, and receive a new ball, while conversations explain factories (water- and steam-power, children piecing broken threads) and farm life’s give-and-take. A visit to the Milford cotton mill and its great water-wheel cements these lessons, before the family reaches Grandmamma’s country house, where Willy begins tending his own small garden and discovers peas, lettuces, and the homely spinning-wheel—a calm segue to further instruction. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76408,908,'Reading ease score: 79.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76408,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76408,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76409,520,'"Marigold :  A story by Edith Allonby" by Edith Allonby is a fantastical allegorical novel written in the early 20th century. Set in Lucifram—a contrarian shadow-world near Hell—the tale blends satire of religion and power with a fairy-tale sensibility. It follows Marigold, a spirited princess who disguises herself as a beggar to pursue and test the revered High Priest Alphonso, while the enigmatic St Armand and the coldly brilliant Prince Plucritus weave larger designs.  The opening of Marigold introduces Lucifram’s ruler, Prince Plucritus, his glittering web over the world, and his austere consort Vestné, then pauses for a sharp interlude on Eve, obedience, and the making of woman. We see Plucritus and Vestné plot to strengthen their “net,” hinting at Alphonso’s role as a gatekeeper. The story then shifts to Marigold of Ellel, who, bored by luxury, dons rags to seek the High Priest’s attention, boldly begs him after vespers, and later faces his cool scrutiny in the Palace after a humiliating meal among the poor. A chance encounter in the Temple grounds with a small, chillingly charismatic stranger (St Armand) unsettles her, while her tender visit to a dying neighbor boy reveals her compassion. Parallel scenes show Alphonso and St Armand discussing a haunted Marble House and an old friend, and at dawn St Armand slips, catlike, through Friar’s Court to observe the sleeping Marigold, foreshadowing a contest of influence around her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76409,908,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76409,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76409,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76409,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76410,520,'"La Malquerida: Drama en tres actos y en prosa" by Jacinto Benavente is a stage play written in the early 20th century. Set in a Castilian village, it follows Raimunda and her daughter Acacia—“la malquerida”—as a courtship draws the gaze of suitors, neighbors, and family, and stirs up jealousy, gossip, and questions of honor. The story probes how forbidden desire and communal pressure can turn love into violence and tear a household in two.  The opening of the play begins with a festive gathering for Acacia’s betrothal to Faustino, abruptly shattered by a gunshot that leaves the groom dead and the village blaming her cousin Norberto. Though the Justice frees him, the community splits into hostile camps, and Faustino’s father Eusebio vows revenge. Retreating to their farm, Raimunda summons Norberto, learns of a rumor that the killing was arranged to stop the marriage, and hears the new street-song branding Acacia “la malquerida,” which leads her to confront her daughter about a dangerous, unspoken pursuit within the household. She denounces her husband and shields Norberto from an ambush; at the start of the next act, Norberto lies wounded but not in mortal danger as villagers and authorities converge, and the threat of further violence hangs over them all. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76410,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Unloved_Woman_(play) https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_malquerida_(obra_de_teatro)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76410,908,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76410,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76411,520,'"The Last Dragon" by Dan Totheroh is a children''s fantasy novel written in the early 20th century. It follows siblings Johnathan, Janet Jane, and Peter Baxter, their intrepid Grandma, and two dogs as they befriend a gentle, blue‑eyed dragon—the last of his kind—and ride him back into the Dark Ages. The tale sets up a quest to save the enchanted Princess Silver Toes from the rival dragon Dallahan, aided by a prickly cave-gnome named Crubby.  The opening of this story finds the Baxter children staging Arthurian games in a meadow beside a mysterious woodlot, where six-year-old Peter wanders into a cave and awakens a kindly green dragon who calls himself the last in the world. After the children warm to him (and Grandma welcomes him), their mother drives him away, and their father can’t see him at all; but before dawn the dragon taps at the nursery window and carries Johnathan, Janet Jane, Peter, the dogs, and Grandma (who floats down in her rocking chair) on a headlong ride “backwards” through history. They pass scenes from the past, reach a volcano so the dragon can “eat fire,” and retire to his vast cave home, where they meet the tiny, bossy Crubby. He reveals that the dragon’s enchanted companion, Princess Silver Toes, has been stolen, prompting the dragon to tell her backstory—from silver-dipped toes to a witch’s spell and a storm-swept escape. Learning that the kidnapper is Dallahan, the Irish dragon, the group resolves to rescue her and hurries to an armorer on the king’s highway, where Grandma, the children, and even the dogs are fitted with mail and swords, setting the quest in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76411,908,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76411,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76411,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76411,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76411,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76411,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76412,520,'"Le cas étrange du docteur Jekyll; Un logement pour la nuit" by Stevenson is a collection of fiction written in the late 19th century. It pairs a Gothic investigation into the bond between the esteemed Dr. Jekyll and the menacing Mr. Hyde with an additional tale likely set in medieval Paris. The main thread follows lawyer Mr. Utterson as he probes the unsettling overlap between public respectability and hidden vice in Victorian London.  The opening of the collection introduces Mr. Utterson, who hears Enfield’s story of a cruel, small man named Hyde using a key to a mysterious door and producing a dubious cheque linked to Dr. Jekyll. Troubled by Jekyll’s will that favors Hyde, Utterson seeks and confronts Hyde, confirms his access to Jekyll’s home, and soon learns of the savage murder of Sir Danvers Carew; Hyde disappears, while police find evidence in his Soho rooms. Jekyll disavows Hyde and shows a note, which Utterson’s clerk remarks resembles Jekyll’s handwriting; Lanyon then falls fatally ill after a secret rupture with Jekyll and dies, leaving a sealed packet, while Jekyll grows reclusive. The section ends as Poole, Jekyll’s servant, fearfully begs Utterson to come at once, implying something is terribly wrong behind the locked laboratory door. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76412,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76413,520,'"Slighted love :  or, At her heart''s expense" by Mrs. Alex. McVeigh Miller is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Italy Vale, a striking young woman determined to clear her mother’s name after her father’s murder, as she enters her wealthy kinsman’s New England home and confronts old scandals, dangerous secrets, and fraught romances. The story weaves melodrama and mystery around inheritance, social stigma, and the hazards of love, with key figures including the reserved heir Francis Murray, the charming Percy Seabright, and the volatile Mrs. Dunn.  The opening of the story reveals Italy’s mother confessing that Italy’s father was murdered and that she herself was tried and acquitted, yet condemned by public opinion; years later, after her mother’s death, Italy goes to Francis Murray’s seaside estate, The Lodge, suspecting him because he benefited from the entail. Tension rises as Italy somnambulates into his library in search of her father’s missing diary, Francis confronts her motives, and she flees to Boston to seek her mother’s old lawyer. There she is deceived by a clerk, Craig Severn, lured to a private house, and nearly assaulted before a mysterious shot kills him; found later walking in her sleep, she is retrieved by Francis and brought back. She meets Percy Seabright—her father’s friend—and faints; newspapers soon report Severn’s body found with a bullet wound. Emmett Harlow gently courts Italy and is refused, while jealous Alys Audenreid and her aunt Mrs. Dunn bristle; during a yacht outing Italy is pushed overboard, rescued by Ralph Allen and Francis, and Mrs. Dunn spitefully accuses Emmett before Francis quells the charge. These chapters set the central quest—finding the truth behind the murder and the missing diary—amid simmering jealousy, peril, and uncertain loyalties. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76413,908,'Reading ease score: 80.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76414,520,'"Lempeä ja lemmen leikkiä :  Yksinäytöksinen kuvaus by J. Maanpää is a one-act stage play written in the early 20th century. Set in a Finnish manor’s garden, it is a light romantic comedy of manners that satirizes flirtation, jealousy, and social pretension, contrasting sincere affection with cynical game-playing.  At Hongisto manor, the jovial landlord Alppi, his wife, their daughter Dagmar, and visiting youth orbit one another in a summer tangle. Shy feelings bloom between Siiri Auer and student Valto Helavuori, while Dagmar’s fiancé, the vain Engelbert Blom, tries to unsettle them by hinting at Valto’s supposed city romance and a telltale “red” letter—later revealed to be harmless. Engelbert’s caddish side is exposed when he flirts with the maid Kerttu and is called out by her sweetheart Jussi. After a comic interlude with the bumbling Setä-Fridolf, tempers flare: Hongisto rebukes Engelbert, who responds with brazen cynicism about love; Dagmar throws him back his ring and breaks the engagement. The play closes with Dagmar consoled by family, and Siiri and Valto openly affirming their mutual love. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76414,908,'Reading ease score: 51.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76414,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76414,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76414,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76415,520,'Yksin Lontoossa by Hesba Stretton is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set amid the streets around Holborn and the Strand, it follows gentle old newsvendor James Oliver, who unexpectedly becomes guardian to a deserted little girl, Dolly, and bonds with a street boy, Tony. The story promises a tender, faith-infused portrait of poverty, loneliness, and small acts of kindness in the great city.  The opening of the novel shows a sweltering London evening, Oliver’s cramped shop-home, and his wistful talk with his sister about their past and his estranged daughter, Susanna. After Charlotta leaves, a woman abandons Dolly in the shop; Oliver keeps the child despite Tony’s offer to take her. A note reveals Dolly is Susanna’s daughter, sent to mend the rift, but another letter soon explains Susanna has chosen to follow her soldier husband to India, leaving Dolly in Oliver’s care. Oliver’s joy mixes with worry over age, poverty, and failing memory, while Tony becomes a nightly lodger, absorbs Oliver’s simple Christian comfort, prays for honest work, and—helped by Dolly buying him a broom—finally starts sweeping a busy crossing and earns his first coins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76415,908,'Reading ease score: 48.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76415,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76415,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76415,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76416,520,'"Une maison bien tenue :  Conseils aux jeunes maîtresses de maison" by Marie Delorme is a household management guide written in the early 20th century. Aimed at young mistresses of the house, it offers practical and moral guidance for keeping a clean, orderly, and welcoming home, from daily routines and hygiene to managing servants, the salon, and the table. The work blends exact instructions with the ideal of the “strong woman,” urging capable, cheerful stewardship of family life.  The opening of this guide invokes the biblical “femme forte” to argue that domestic competence is both noble and necessary, then addresses young women’s doubts and calls them to share their mothers’ burdens and learn by doing. It insists on steady, everyday order rather than occasional upheavals; emphasizes hygiene, fresh air, and firm but fair training of servants; and warns against fussy nagging that kills household peace. Detailed morning routines follow—airing rooms, brushing clothes, making beds properly—and young women are urged to “do their own room” as physical and moral discipline. A historical sketch of the salon leads to a critique of France’s unused show-salons, recommending instead a lived-in family parlour, then gives precise methods for cleaning salons, dusting furniture and bibelots, caring for plants, and preparing fireplaces. The narrative turns to the table: keeping odors at bay, organizing buffet and “office,” buying durable equipment, and laying a simple, correct cover. It closes this opening section with service etiquette in family meals—when to have servants present, who carves, how to serve children, clearing before dessert, coffee and liqueurs in the salon—and the rule to wash up and restore order promptly. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76416,908,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76416,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76417,520,'The children by Edith Wharton is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Martin Boyne, a middle‑aged engineer, who becomes entangled with the glamorous yet chaotic Wheater clan—especially teen caretaker Judith, her delicate twin Terry, and a volatile mix of full-, half-, and step‑siblings—while their wealthy parents drift between yachts and hotels. The story explores modern divorce and remarriage and the cost of adult caprice on children who are determined to keep themselves together.  The opening of the novel finds Boyne on a cruise from Algiers, where he notices Judith minding a baby and a swarm of children and ends up sharing a cabin with her twin, Terry. Through Judith and the governess, Miss Scope, he learns the family tangle: the Wheater parents split and remarried disastrously (to a movie star and an Italian prince), then reunited; the brood now includes “steps” Bun, Beechy, and Zinnie alongside Judith, Terry, and Blanca, with baby Chip adored by the parents. A day trip to Monreale shows Judith’s flair for mothering even as high art leaves her cold, deepening Boyne’s interest. When Terry begs for an education, Boyne agrees to help, stays on to meet the parents in Venice, and secures a cultivated tutor, Gerald Ormerod. Over breakfast at the modest pension where the children stay, Judith refuses school for herself, vowing never to leave the tribe, and hints that Joyce may prefer to keep the tutor in Venice for her own amusement. The section closes with Boyne uncomfortably aware of adult currents swirling around the children he has begun to care about. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76417,908,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76417,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76417,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76418,520,'"The tomb of Ts''in" by Edgar Wallace is an adventure-thriller novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on a dangerous hunt for the legendary tomb of China’s First Emperor, mixing crime, espionage, and archaeology. The key players include the flamboyant adventurer Captain Ted Talham, the brilliant Italian sleuth Signor Tillizinni, the poised Yvonne Yale, and the ruthless Mr. Soo, all entangled with a murderous secret society and a priceless jade clue.  The opening of the story introduces the stakes through repeated attempts to rob a ship’s safe carrying a Chinese Embassy mailbag, leading Tillizinni to the Ambassador, whose historical article about the First Emperor’s burial becomes the catalyst for intrigue. Talham rescues Yvonne from Chinese pursuers in Hyde Park and deciphers the inscription on her ancient jade bracelet—directions that seem to point toward the tomb—before persuading her to let him hold it for safety. Soon after, the Ambassador is found strangled and a Chinese assailant shot dead in a bureau drawer; a vital envelope is empty, and the suave Mr. Soo emerges as a formidable rival, mobilizing his secret-society network. As deceptions multiply—a fake bracelet is swapped, two burglars (Talham and Tillizinni) collide in de Costa’s house, and a bomb nearly kills the detective—the strands tighten around the tomb’s secret, with social niceties masking a deadly contest for the true jade clue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76418,908,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76419,520,'"The Girls at His Billet" by Berta Ruck is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set on England’s east coast during wartime, it blends romantic comedy and home-front life as three spirited sisters under a strict aunt find their dull village transformed by an army training camp and the arrival of a billeted young officer. Narrated by the sharp-tongued youngest sister, the story promises flirtations, clashes, and shifting loyalties as khaki invades their “hen-party” household.  The opening of the novel follows Elizabeth (“Rattle”), her sisters Evelyn and Nancy, and their aunt in the dreary village of “Mud Flats” as news arrives that troops will be billeted locally. Rattle cleverly maneuvers her aunt into accepting an officer, and after much excited preparation and card-fortune “omens,” Second-Lieutenant Frank Lascelles turns up early, overhears Rattle’s cheeky “Billet Boy” talk, and sparks instant mutual antagonism—though he charms everyone else. Daily life fills with training scenes, ration details, and his irrepressible presence, while a tall, quiet officer named Curtis and another, Masters, are invited to a small supper. After a brief sisterly truce, Rattle finds a “new interest”: secretly answering a newspaper ad from a “Lonely and Unpopular Subaltern,” penning a candid, sympathetic letter that hints at her own isolation and sets up a parallel thread to the household’s khaki tensions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76419,908,'Reading ease score: 81.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76419,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76419,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76419,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76419,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76420,520,'"The wooing of Rosamond Fayre" by Berta Ruck is a novel written in the early 20th century. It’s a light, witty romance about love set in motion by misdirected letters and mistaken identity, moving from an English country house to a French seaside village on the eve of war. The story centers on capable, charming Rosamond Fayre, dutiful philanthropist Eleanor Urquhart, and Eleanor’s adventurous cousin and fiancé, Ted Urquhart, whose courtship-by-post takes an unexpected turn.  At the start of the story, Rosamond, hired as Eleanor’s secretary at Urquhart’s Court, is asked to write Eleanor’s weekly letters to Ted abroad—and even to sign them—despite her misgivings. Her first carefully neutral note, scented by slipped-in rose petals, prompts Ted’s intrigued reply and, soon after, an impulsive, unannounced return to England. Finding Eleanor away at a French Holiday Hostel for working girls (with Rosamond temporarily in charge), he travels there incognito, rescues two of the girls from a cliff mishap with Rosamond’s help, and—mistaking Rosamond for his fiancée—becomes instantly fascinated. Invited to tea at the Hostel, he withholds his name while Pansy, a flamboyant “Principal Boy,” leads the chatter; the scene ends with Ted plotting to continue his anonymous wooing of the woman he believes is Eleanor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76420,908,'Reading ease score: 81.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76420,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76420,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76420,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76421,520,'"My secrets of beauty :  Including more than 1,000 valuable recipes for…." by Mme. Lina Cavalieri is a practical beauty manual written in the early 20th century. It lays out a complete regimen for maintaining and enhancing personal appearance through daily care, massage, baths, diet, exercise, and abundant home-prepared treatments. Drawing on the author’s stage-honed experience, it aims to free readers from dubious “beauty doctors” with clear routines and tried recipes.  The opening of the manual features a foreword promising authoritative, affordable guidance, then moves straight into detailed advice on the complexion: thorough night cleansing with cold cream, tepid water, and mild soap; seasonal adjustments; vigilant sun and wind protection; and numerous masks, creams, and lotions for tan, freckles, sunburn, and oily skin. It prescribes tonic body baths, light facial massage with specific motions, and practical setup of the dressing table, while urging hydration, sensible diet, and restraint with harsh agents. The next section addresses the neck—how posture and dress change its apparent length, how massage and creams can redistribute or build tissue, how to prevent stains, and why low pillows and proper sleep position matter. Guidance for eyes, ears, and nose stresses avoiding eye strain (no reading on trains or at night), gentle eye baths, brief targeted massage, careful brow and lash care, simple first aid for styes and “colds” in the eye, and caution with ears and nasal douching. The start of the hands chapter emphasizes never letting hands get cold, correct washing, softening with glycerine or oils, optional night gloves, light massage strokes, and quick fixes for chapping, sunburn, and early freckles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76421,908,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76421,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76421,676);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76422,520,'"The symbolism of colour by Ellen McCaffery" is an esoteric nonfiction treatise written in the early 20th century. It explores how colours function as a shared symbolic language across religions, myth, poetry, art, healing, and nature, presenting colour as both a spiritual sign and a practical force.  The book begins by asserting that colour is power—vibration linked to sound—with real effects in healing, agriculture, and weather lore, and that true symbols rest on correspondences. It then surveys each hue: red (life, health, courage, sacrifice, love; in debased form, passion and violence), pink (healing inspiration and service), yellow (sun, unity, wisdom, glory; also deceit and decay), green (hope, immortality, knowledge; also jealousy and omens of death), blue (truth, devotion, heavenly vision; also sadness and coldness), purple/violet (humility, patience, and wisdom born of love and truth; also pomp), white (purity and the joy of the redeemed; also cowardice and hypocrisy), black (mystery, eternity, sacred silence; also evil and black magic), and brown/grey (rest, ripeness, contemplation; with grey signifying resurrection in sacred art). A chapter on the rainbow gathers all hues as a sign of universal blessing and multiple paths to the divine, illustrated with examples from Egypt, India, China, Greece, the Norse, the Bible, and modern poets. Appendices detail “schools of colour,” planetary and liturgical palettes, sky-colour weather signs, the forms implied by primary colours, and plant-growth experiments under coloured light. The work concludes by urging a renewal of symbolic vision, noting the human aura as a key to colour meanings, and calling for future healers who serve both body and soul. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76422,908,'Reading ease score: 67.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76423,520,'"Der Witz und seine Beziehung zum Unbewußten" by Sigmund Freud is a psychoanalytic treatise written in the early 20th century. The work explores how jokes operate, why they please, and how their linguistic form reveals unconscious processes, connecting wit to the comic, dreams, and social interaction. It proposes a systematic account of joke techniques and motives, emphasizing how expression, not just ideas, generates comic effect.  The opening of the book moves from editorial preliminaries and a contents outline into an introduction that surveys philosophers’ scattered theories of wit versus the broader comic. Freud reviews themes from Jean Paul, Vischer, Kuno Fischer, and Lipps—playful judgment, pairing the unlike, contrasts, “sense in nonsense,” surprise and illumination, brevity, and uncovering the hidden—arguing these are insightful but unsystematic. He then begins his analytic program by unpacking Heine’s “famillionär,” showing that the joke’s force lies in expression through linguistic condensation and blend-words, not in the bare thought. From this he sketches a typology: condensation with composite formation or slight modification; reuse of the same verbal material by splitting, reordering, or minimal change; and double meanings (names vs. things, literal vs. metaphorical, full puns, sexual ambiguity, allusion), illustrating each with examples and briefly linking these mechanisms to dream-work and to a general tendency toward economy of expression, before noting the lowly “calembour” as a contrasting case. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76423,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jokes_and_Their_Relation_to_the_Unconscious',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76423,908,'Reading ease score: 65.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76423,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76423,687);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76424,520,'Ihinen ja peto by Samuel Scoville is a collection of animal adventure stories written in the early 20th century. Set largely in southern Africa, it blends vivid natural-history detail with fast-paced, often perilous encounters between predators, prey, and people. The tales spotlight cunning, survival, and the uneasy ties between the wild and the human world, featuring memorable figures like a bold jackal and a devoted baboon alongside frontier railwaymen and hunters.  The opening of the work first follows Punainen Rooi, a red-backed jackal who kills a deadly viper, feeds and trains his litter, escapes a hunters’ raid with a clever earth-burrow trick, and graduates from small antelope hunts to shadowing a black-maned lion for scraps—outwitting the big cat until he astonishingly slays a massive rock python with a precise neck bite, winning a wary female’s respect. The narrative then shifts to a frame told by Red Swope, who recounts a vast troop of baboons braving a flood; he rescues an abandoned infant, Jok, which an amputee stationman, Jim Tully, raises and trains to run signals and chores with uncanny skill and strength. After defending Jim and becoming his constant companion, Jok vanishes into the bush carrying Jim’s body when the old man dies suddenly, leaving the new stationmaster sensing the unseen presence around the siding. The section closes with the station bracing for a late-night special, the atmosphere tense and expectant. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76424,908,'Reading ease score: 36.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76424,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76424,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76424,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76425,520,'"Meijeri :  Kolminäytöksinen kansanhuvinäytelmä" by Artturi Järviluoma is a three-act folk comedy play written in the early 20th century. Set in a Finnish backwoods village of the 1880s, it pits a new cooperative dairy against household butter-making, turning progress versus tradition into village-sized farce. The gentle widower Enkkeli, his practical sister-in-law Vappu, blustery farmhand Janne, steady neighbor Aapo, and showy would-be bride Mariaana drive the tangle of courtship, money worries, and milk morals. Expect lively dialect humor, musical interludes, and community politics where love matches hinge on cream, cash, and reputation.  The opening of the play sketches the village and Heikkilä household as gossip spreads that a meijeri may be founded, alarming Janne and Fiia, who mock “kurnaali” (meijerimilk) while the accordionist Tuppu boasts he’s been asked to be meijerist. Roughhousing, a meijeri-song, and comic bluster follow until Enkkeli returns from a failed proposal—scuttled when he mentioned the dairy—only for the peddler Susso to steer him toward the richer Mariaana. Meanwhile Aapo tentatively courts Vappu, but they quarrel over the dairy on moral and domestic grounds. The schoolteacher barrels in to rally a meeting, and on Sunday Mariaana visits, flaunts Leppälä’s means, and all but conditions marriage on Huhtajärvi getting a meijeri, prompting Enkkeli to pivot in favor. This alarms the servants, who trade tales of poisoned milk until Miina reveals they already ate tasty velli cooked with meijerimaito, sending the anxious Iiska into slapstick hypochondria. The scenes build toward the village’s decision, with romance and reputation tied to whether the churn or the cream separator will rule. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76425,908,'Reading ease score: 55.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76425,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76425,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76426,520,'"A blighted life :  A true story" by Baroness Rosina Bulwer Lytton Lytton is an autobiographical memoir written in the late 19th century. It presents the author’s searing account of long-term marital persecution by the celebrated novelist-statesman Edward Bulwer-Lytton and her battle against wrongful incarceration under England’s lunacy laws. Fiercely polemical, it combines personal testimony with a broader indictment of legal, political, and literary elites she believes enabled the abuse.  The opening of this memoir sets the stage with an editor’s preface that hails the narrative as a true record of persecution, denounces the lunacy laws, and frames the story against a backdrop of public outrage and establishment complicity, while noting included portraits of the key figures. Rosina then writes in her own voice—addressing a novelist seeking accounts of asylum abuses—declaring she wants no help as she catalogs a system of spies, smears, and legal traps allegedly deployed by her husband: planted libels, attempted entrapments at Llangollen (including a suspected poisoning and “Miss G—” with a decoy dog), collusion via local post and publicans, and harassment by disreputable agents. She recounts a failed legal ruse involving “Mrs. S—LL—,” the disappearance of papers sent to a senior law lord, and the withholding of her allowance. The sequence culminates in her dramatic public confrontation at the Hertford hustings, her husband’s flight from the platform, and, immediately after, an abortive attempt by a doctor and asylum keeper to have her certified insane—foiled, she says, by her composure—followed by a fruitless request that she name terms for peace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76426,908,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76426,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76426,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76426,690);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76427,520,'"The best short stories of 1922, and the yearbook of the American short story" by Edward J. O’Brien is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The anthology gathers notable American magazine fiction alongside a “yearbook” of trends, indexes, and honors, framed by the editor’s critical introduction. It showcases a broad range of styles—from modernist experiments to popular narratives—charting themes of work, family, war, identity, and a shifting national mood.  The opening of the volume offers front matter and O’Brien’s introduction, where he warns of “disintegration” in American letters—both the lazy commercial formula and shallow imitation of European avant-gardes—then explains his selection tests of substance and form and his star-based ranking. The fiction begins with The Dark City, a twilight study of a suburban father whose evening routines and gardening yield to a recurring vision of a silent, menacing city; continues with I’m a Fool, a stablehand’s rueful confession after lying about his identity to impress a girl at the races; and follows with The Death of Murdo, in which a Romani chief, newly healed, engineers a fatal test to secure his tribe’s faith in a successor. It then turns to An Unknown Warrior, opening on a lone soldier entering a snow-shrouded Westminster Abbey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76427,908,'Reading ease score: 84.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76427,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76427,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76428,520,'"The history of the harlequinade, volume 1 (of 2)" by Maurice Sand is a historical study of theatre and performance written in the early 20th century. The work explores the lineage of the commedia dell’arte—its masks, costumes, improvisational methods, and touring troupes—tracing how figures like Harlequin, Pantaloon, Columbine, and Pierrot developed from ancient mime and Atellane farce through the Italian Renaissance and into French popular theatre. It focuses especially on Harlequin’s iconography, stagecraft, and shifting character, setting the scene for a detailed typology of the classic masks.  At the start of this study, the author surveys a long prehistory: Greek mimes and dancers, Roman pantomime and masks, and the use of marionettes, showing how comic performance survived Church prohibitions to re-emerge in medieval and Renaissance Italy. He explains the scenari and improvisation of the commedia dell’arte, the stock roles and regional variants, the acoustics and staging of Renaissance theatres, and the spread of Italian troupes into France, where they influenced fairground stages and the Opéra-Comique amid legal quarrels with established companies. The introduction closes by narrowing the scope to the masks and improvisers themselves. The opening chapter then turns to Harlequin, beginning with a playful first-person monologue that sketches his poverty, gluttony, cowardice, agility, and amorous intrigues, before unpacking his probable descent from ancient phallophores and planipes, the evolution of his black half-mask, patchwork costume, bat, and rabbit-tail emblem, and the shift from simpleton to witty trickster. It culminates with the transformation of the role by the famed actor Domenico Biancolelli, whose lively dancing and invention helped fix the modern Harlequin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76428,908,'Reading ease score: 67.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76428,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76428,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76428,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76429,520,'"The history of the harlequinade, volume 2 (of 2)" by Maurice Sand is a historical and theatrical study written in the mid-19th century. It explores the lineage, traits, costumes, and stage business of commedia dell’arte figures and their European offshoots, blending scholarship with anecdotes about performers and productions. This volume especially follows the “old man” masks (like Pantaloon and the Doctor), their transformations across regions, and the transition from improvised comedy toward musical theatre and the cantatrice.  The opening of the book traces the comic “old man” archetype from Greek and Roman comedy to the Italian stage, then concentrates on Pantaloon—his Venetian roots, miserly and credulous temperament, stock scenes and pranks with Harlequin, social variants (from shabby shopkeeper to Don Pantaleone), costume shifts, and notable interpreters through the centuries. It next profiles related types: the Bolognese Doctor (pedant or quack, spouting macaronic Latin), Naples’s Pangrazio Biscegliese (a provincial butt), the miserly Cassandro, Rome’s polished puppet Cassandrino, Venice’s marionette Facanappa, Sicily’s Baron, and French counterparts like Gaultier-Garguille and Guillot-Gorju, always tying character to costume, dialect, and stage tradition. The narrative then turns to the Cantatrice, sketching how sung drama evolved from Greek choruses through Italian interludes into opera buffa, and how these forms mingled with comic masks; it recalls Mazarin’s importation of Italian opera to Paris, interlude business with Scaramouche, and emblematic performers from “Babet la Chanteuse” to Madame Favart, alongside lively anecdotes and composer namechecks that anchor the history in performance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76429,908,'Reading ease score: 69.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76429,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76429,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76430,520,'"Määrän päässä :  Kolminäytöksinen näytelmä" by Arvi A. Seppälä is a three-act play written in the early 20th century. It follows Dr. Alfred Sanmarck, a brilliant but obsessive chemist on the brink of a groundbreaking discovery, as his devotion to science corrodes his marriage to the restless Hilda, who drifts toward the charming painter Aarne Kartio. Jenny Kautto, a clear‑eyed typist with a past attachment to Kartio, becomes both witness and catalyst. The drama probes the clash between vocation and domestic life, pride and desire, and the peril of public gossip.  The opening of the play situates us in Sanmarck’s Helsinki home and laboratory, where he and Dr. Tela work late, exulting over results that challenge the permanence of the elements and hint at eather’s reality. Sanmarck’s mother fusses over his health, while Hilda breezes in from art circles with a newly bought Kartio painting; a cutting argument about the picture exposes their deeper rift—her hunger for society and recognition versus his austere calling. Jenny quietly warns the mother of Hilda’s growing intimacy with Kartio, then confronts both lovers; despite misgivings, Hilda and Kartio go out to a masquerade. Alerted by Jenny and, under pressure, by the maid, Sanmarck follows; at the start of the second act he returns, having seen enough to confirm the betrayal, and speaks with bitter lucidity about being the man one marries—rather than the man one loves. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76430,908,'Reading ease score: 47.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76430,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76431,520,'"Omalla konnulla : Huvinäytelmä kolmessa näytöksessä" by Aapo Pärmänen is a comic play in three acts written in the early 20th century. Set in a Finnish village, it centers on the aging tenant farmer Kiviaho, his daughter Liisa, and her suitor Saarimäki as they navigate gossip, lease renewals, and marriage plans under the eye of their landlord Nieminen. A meddling healer, Leena, and a scheming neighbor, Hakala, stir trouble, while a smooth-talking drifter tempts the young with dreams of emigration. The play’s heart is the struggle to secure a home “on one’s own land” amid pride, rumor, and temptation.  The opening of the play shows Kiviaho’s household unsettled: Leena fusses over his ailments and hints at marriage, Hakala whispers that Saarimäki means to take over the torp, and Kiviaho catches Liisa and Saarimäki plotting to dissuade him from wedlock. At Nieminen’s, hopes for new tenancies collide with the landlord’s plan to sell timber, a roaming fixer (Limberg) dupes Pekka and the young couple with fake “passes” to Australia, and Hakala buys Kiviaho’s lease with stolen cash. The nimismies exposes both the theft and the emigration scam, Nieminen backs off the timber sale, and Pekka secures the derelict Palolahti torp, winning Katri’s hand for a shared future. As the third act begins, Leena has made herself indispensable at Kiviaho’s, and rumor now pressures the pair toward a forced match, while Liisa remains away. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76431,908,'Reading ease score: 54.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76431,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76431,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76432,520,'"History and criticism of the labor theory of value in English political economy" by Albert C. Whitaker is a scholarly historical study written in the early 20th century. It examines how English economists developed and debated the labor theory of value, separating “philosophical” (primitive, essence-seeking) accounts from “empirical” (market and cost-based) explanations, and follows the doctrine from Adam Smith and Ricardo through Malthus, McCulloch, James Mill, Torrens, Senior, John Stuart Mill, and Cairnes.  The opening of the work sets its scope and method, rejecting the idea of a single, unified “classical” labor theory and framing the history around two strands: a philosophical account that roots value in labor and an empirical account that explains market prices by entrepreneurs’ costs. It then dissects Adam Smith’s multiple and inconsistent treatments—his labor-cost regulator versus labor-command measure, his handling of labor as both productive power and disutility, and his corn-as-index idea—before showing how Smith abandons labor-cost for advanced society while retaining labor-command as a measure. Whitaker criticizes this move, then turns to Ricardo as a more consistent architect who treats utility as a prerequisite, excludes pure scarcity goods, counts indirect labor, and grapples—often obscurely—with profits and the fixed-versus-circulating capital complication in normal price (wages plus profits). The excerpt closes by introducing McCulloch, James Mill, and Torrens, highlighting McCulloch’s dogmatic broadening of “labor” (to include nature and machines) and noting his anticipation of the later Marxian “organic composition of capital” problem and its aggregate-value “solution.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76432,908,'Reading ease score: 47.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76432,696);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76433,520,'La marque des quatre by Arthur Conan Doyle is a detective novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson as they investigate Miss Mary Morstan’s troubling case involving her missing father, mysterious pearls sent annually, and whispers of a hidden treasure tied to soldiers from India.  The opening of the novel presents Holmes’s restless intellect and cocaine use, his method of observation and deduction (demonstrated through a revealing analysis of Watson’s watch), and the arrival of Miss Morstan with her story: her father vanished years earlier, she has since received yearly rare pearls, and a new letter invites her to a secret meeting. Holmes and Watson accompany her to the rendezvous, are whisked through foggy London to Thaddeus Sholto, who recounts how his father, Major Sholto, concealed Captain Morstan’s sudden death during a quarrel about a trove from India, hid the treasure, feared a one‑legged man, and died amid a mysterious intrusion marked “The Sign of Four.” Thaddeus explains that his twin, Bartholomew, has just found the treasure in a concealed garret, and the group rushes to Pondicherry Lodge, where a wary gatekeeper and a distraught housekeeper deepen the unease. At the top of the house they find Bartholomew’s laboratory locked; through the keyhole they glimpse his ghastly, frozen face, and as Holmes and Watson break down the door, the scene of the first crisis comes into view. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76433,908,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76434,520,'"A brief history of the Tenth Michigan Cavalry by L. S. Trowbridge" is a regimental history and firsthand historical account written in the early 20th century. The book traces the Union cavalry regiment’s organization, operations, and combat in the American Civil War, focusing on East Tennessee, southwestern Virginia, and North Carolina, with attention to key engagements, leadership, and the unit’s character in the field.  The narrative follows the regiment from its formation and harsh winter movements in Kentucky and East Tennessee through relentless outpost duty, fortifying Strawberry Plains, and hard-fought skirmishes at Carter’s Station, Blue Springs, Rogersville, and Greenville—where a surprise strike shattered Confederate positions and John H. Morgan was killed. It details the unit’s steadiness during the Morristown crisis, the defense of Knoxville’s approaches against Breckinridge, and a thorough refit before joining Stoneman’s raid that wrecked railroads, burned bridges, fought at Henry Court House and Abbott’s Creek, and helped clear the path to the capture of Salisbury. The closing chapters cover the news of surrender in Virginia, the shock of Lincoln’s assassination, the wide net cast in the pursuit of Jefferson Davis, a long return for postwar duty in West Tennessee, and final muster out. Portraits of officers, concise statistics, and a theater map frame the story’s central theme: the endurance, discipline, and combat effectiveness of the Tenth Michigan Cavalry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76434,908,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76434,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76434,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76435,520,'"The black kiss by Robert Bloch and Henry Kuttner" is a horror short story written in the early 20th century. Set on the California coast, it follows an artist haunted by planned, escalating sea-dreams tied to an ancestral legend, drawing him toward a supernatural act of possession.  An artist, Graham Dean, inherits an old San Pedro house once occupied by Morella Godolfo, a figure of sinister local legend said to consort with unearthly sea-dwellers. As Graham’s seascape dreams intensify into vivid visions of green depths and shadowy swimmers, he learns from an occult-wise ally, Doctor Yamada, that such beings can steal human bodies through a kiss, and that Morella herself was once a sea-thing inhabiting a human shell. Lured to a coastal cave, Graham is kissed again and finds his mind trapped in the pale, scaly body of the creature, while his human body is taken by Morella. After swimming with the monsters to a wreck and witnessing their predation on drowning men, he returns to the cave, confronts his stolen human form, and restrains it as Yamada and Graham’s uncle arrive. In a final act of self-sacrifice, Graham ensures the sea-creature in his body cannot escape, dying as Yamada fires and as he himself delivers a fatal bite, breaking the possession and atoning for the black kiss. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76435,908,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76435,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76435,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76435,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76436,520,'"Lemun rannalla :  Laulunäytelmä kahdessa kuvaelmassa by Karl Rosendahl" is a musical stage play (a song-play in two tableaux) written in the late 19th century. Set against memories of the Finnish War of the early 1800s, it blends romance and patriotic remembrance on the old battlefield of Lemu, focusing on love, filial duty, and the redemptive power of identity and gratitude.  The story follows Alma, a major’s daughter, who loves the student Akseli despite her stern veteran father, Major Ridderstjerna. A one‑legged ex-corporal, Modig, delivers Akseli’s letter and heads to Lemu to honor fallen comrades; Alma mistakenly gives him Akseli’s engraved ring. The major insists on going to Lemu as well, and Akseli, in disguise as a coachman, drives father and daughter there. On the battlefield, Modig’s memories and the ring trigger revelations: Akseli is Modig’s long-lost son, saved in infancy after his mother drowned, and the major is the officer whose life Modig once saved in battle. Joyful recognition follows, the major invites Modig to share his home, and he blesses Alma and Akseli’s union as a chorus celebrates fate, love, and comradeship. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76436,908,'Reading ease score: 43.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76436,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76436,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76437,520,'"Labyrintti :  Romaani" by Édouard Estaunié is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Jean Pesnel, who is determined to repair his family’s honor after his banker father’s ruin, and his younger half-brother André, as a confession and an unexpected inheritance draw them into a moral labyrinth of guilt, truth, and duty. Set around Le Puy and a secluded ancestral estate, the story probes how past actions shape lives and how the drive to make amends can collide with self-interest.  The opening of the book presents an urgent letter and package sent to André Cabriès at sea by Jean, who admits a hidden responsibility for a web of events and asks André to read his full confession; André does not reply. The narrative then shifts to Jean’s account: his father’s bank failure in Puy defines his life, he vows to repay the debts, raises André, and learns two stinging truths—his aunt, Madame de Castérac, helped trigger the collapse by withdrawing funds, and their old home is scornfully called the “House of the Bankrupts.” Summoned back by notary Bourdoin, Jean discovers the aunt has died; he is likely heir, and she secretly bought that very house. At her estate, a hidden hoard of banknotes—over two million—is found with no will, making him the legal heir. Despite the notary’s objections, Jean resolves to repay the old creditors, spends a restless first night at the estate, visits the dust-choked city house, and returns to set public notices in motion, exhilarated that restitution can finally begin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76437,908,'Reading ease score: 43.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76437,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76437,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76438,520,'"Hints on writing short stories by Charles Joseph Finger" is a practical guidebook on the craft of fiction written in the early 20th century. Blending lively essays with hands-on advice, it champions sincerity and truth in storytelling, explores character, plot, style, and theme, and offers market tips for aspiring writers. Its likely topic is how to write short stories that feel real, avoiding cliché, distortion, and formula.  The book opens by dismissing correspondence-school formulas and sets its keynote: truth is the final test of literature. It urges writers to be sincere, see straight, and “set down the thing as it is,” warning against patriotic and class prejudices that flatten characters into types. It treats character as complex—often facets of the writer’s own nature—and shows courage more in moral choice than in brute action, advising restraint with murder and spectacle. Plot, it argues, grows from character and situation; plausibility matters less than convincing feeling and texture, so romance and fantasy are fair game if rendered with verisimilitude. It cautions against obsessive sex-themes and marriage-as-ending clichés, proposes contrarian story seeds, and defines style as clear, honest communication rather than ornament—illustrated with sharp quotations and examples. The author highlights a neglected field in writing for youth, lists welcoming magazines, and closes by urging writers to listen closely to real speech and moments, since truth, simply told, is what endures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76438,908,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76438,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76438,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76439,520,'"Historic towns of the southern states" by Lyman P. Powell is a collection of historical essays written in the early 20th century. It surveys notable Southern towns and cities—their founding, growth, conflicts, and civic culture—through contributions by regional scholars and is richly illustrated. Expect engaging local narratives paired with analysis of economics, war, and reconstruction that together chart the making of the urban South.  The opening of the volume sets a patriotic, educational, and conciliatory tone in the preface, then, in W. P. Trent’s introduction, challenges the idea of a non-urban South by explaining how geography, plantation agriculture, slavery, interstate jealousy, and fragile finance slowed city-building even as railroads, trade conventions, and postwar recovery spurred it. The first major chapter, on Baltimore, shows how waterways initially discouraged towns; how private initiative created Baltimore, Jonestown, and Fell’s Point; and how trade routes, immigration, and wartime pressures fueled rapid growth. It recounts Baltimore’s Revolutionary contributions, its War of 1812 defense and privateering, subsequent booms and busts, and the rise of civic institutions from turnpikes and the B&O Railroad to the Peabody, Hopkins, and Pratt foundations. The next chapter turns to Annapolis, tracing Maryland’s Calvert beginnings, early religious toleration, the Puritan settlement at Providence, and the town’s role as seat of government. It evokes St. Anne’s Church, St. John’s College, and the State House where Washington resigned his commission, then begins a tour of its colonial houses and the “Peggy Stewart” tea-burning episode. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76439,908,'Reading ease score: 55.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76439,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76439,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76440,520,'"The history of Tabby, a favourite cat :  As related by herself to her kitten" by E. Smyth is a children’s moral tale written in the early 19th century. The book follows a mother cat narrating her life to teach virtues such as humility, gratitude, self-control, and kindness toward animals.  Tabby recounts her youth in a cottage, her pride and disobedience, and a perilous attempt to reach the big house that ends with a fall into a cellar and a painful rescue by kind children, especially Henry and Phœbe. Settled with the Meade family, she sketches their characters—Eliza’s conceit, Henry’s compassion, Clara’s delicacy, Augustus’s rashness, and Phœbe’s tenderness—then confesses her worst lapse: killing Henry’s pet dormice. Shamed by his fairness, she reforms and later proves her virtue by resisting the pigeons while locked overnight in their loft, earning praise. She also endures cruelty from visiting boys who maim her, but Henry protects her thereafter. The tale closes with her affectionate counsel to her kitten and a quiet return indoors, underscoring repentance, gentleness, and just treatment of animals. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76440,908,'Reading ease score: 65.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76440,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76441,520,'"Some points in choosing textiles by Charlotte M. Gibbs" is a practical household-science guide written in the early 20th century. It explains how to select and evaluate common fabrics, focusing on cotton, linen, wool, and silk, and offers clear, shopper-friendly methods for recognizing quality, spotting adulteration, and choosing appropriate materials.  The book opens by noting the shift from home-made to factory-made cloth and the resulting need for informed buying. It then details the traits of each fiber and the tricks used to cheapen them: cottons loaded with sizing or calendered to mimic mercerization; linens confused with cotton and identified by fiber feel, luster, and an olive-oil translucency test; wools blended with cotton, disguised in felted “woolens,” or made from shoddy, with guidance on thread feel and burning tests; and silks weakened by heavy “weighting” or woven with cotton backs, contrasted with stronger reeled or coarser pongee types. A concise checklist summarizes common adulterations and simple tests (examining threads, burning behavior, oil and finish checks). Finally, it offers practical buying counsel on weave and finish, matching fabric to purpose and budget, hygiene in underclothing, and tasteful color and design, ending with a call for higher standards and honest labeling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76441,908,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76441,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76441,676);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76442,520,'"The dryad :  a novel" by Justin H. McCarthy is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set amid medieval Frankish-ruled Greece, it weaves chivalric romance with lingering Greek pagan enchantment as a rough soldier of fortune, a high-minded young prince, and an immortal forest nymph collide. The likely focus is on the clash between cynicism and idealism, the endurance of the old gods’ magic, and a perilous love between mortal and immortal, chiefly through Simon of Rouen, Rainouart of the Rock, and the dryad Argathona.  The opening of the novel follows Simon of Rouen into the Eleusinian wood, where his coarse wit, empty purse, and misanthropic “lantern for honesty” contrast sharply with a young knight he meets reading the Romance of the Rose. After spitefully directing lurking thieves toward the knight, Simon naps and wakes to Argathona, a dryad who claims ancient lineage and effortless strength, rebuffing his clumsy advances and compelling him to aid the ambushed rider. She races him to the scene, summons a terror-storm to scatter the robbers, and tends the wounded youth—Rainouart—whose life and vigor revive under her touch. As Simon fetches water, Argathona and Rainouart exchange tender words that flower into first love; he offers lifelong devotion, even to dwell in the forest, while she, bound to the greenwood, hesitates and goes to seek a healing herb. Meanwhile, Simon returns unseen, spies on their meeting, steals the knight’s cherished book, and, torn between envy and pity, toys with darker thoughts over the helpless rival. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76442,908,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76443,520,'"Tennis for girls by Florence A. Ballin" is an instructional sports handbook written in the early 20th century. The book teaches young women how to play lawn tennis, explaining rules, equipment, techniques, and basic strategy with an emphasis on proper form and confident play.  The guide opens by noting differences in early training for girls, then explains the court, scoring, service rotation, and common terms. It stresses learning correct fundamentals—grip, stance, footwork, timing, and “eye on the ball”—and recommends either professional lessons or focused practice against a wall. Clear, practical chapters cover groundstrokes (forehand and backhand drives, including topspin), the service, lobs, volleys, and the overhead smash, with constant reminders to follow through and use body weight. Ballin then moves to tactics: how to place shots, vary pace, create openings, and decide when to come to net in singles; how partners should coordinate in doubles, value deep placement and sharp angles, and use or defend against the lob; and how mixed doubles roles can be balanced. She closes with brief advice on tournament play, mental focus, and sportsmanship. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76443,908,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76443,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76443,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76444,520,'"The three bears by A. E. Kennedy" is a children’s picture book from the early 20th century. The story retells a classic nursery tale about a lost girl who enters a family of bears’ cottage, samples their porridge, tries their chairs and beds, and learns a gentle lesson about trespassing and caution.  The tale follows a cheerful bear family—Papa, Mamma, and little Johnny—who leave their freshly cooked porridge to cool while they go for a walk and doze in the woods. A lost girl named Goldenlocks discovers their house, tastes the three bowls of porridge (finishing the smallest), tries the chairs (breaking the little one), and finally falls asleep in the smallest bed. The bears return, notice the meddling, and find Goldenlocks asleep. She awakens in fright, flees through an open window, and runs home, promising not to wander off again. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76444,908,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76445,520,'"Arkadia : Elämäni kuvia maailmaa kuvastelevilta palkeilta kansallisen…." by Kaarle Halme is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It portrays a Finnish actor’s life behind the scenes at Helsinki’s Arkadia theatre during the national awakening, blending personal milestones with the making of a Finnish-language stage culture. The reminiscences spotlight premieres, backstage tensions, the craft of speech, and vivid portraits of key figures such as Kaarlo Bergbom, Ida Aalberg, Minna Canth, and Niilo Sala.  The opening of the memoir follows the narrator through a nerve‑wracking trial performance as Daniel Hjort and his acceptance into the Suomalainen Teatteri, then recounts the stormy premiere of Minna Canth’s Kovan onnen lapset and the shocked audience response. Attempts by actors to regularize work conditions trigger an irascible rebuttal from director Bergbom, after which the tone shifts to acknowledge his achievements and the galvanizing artistry of Ida Aalberg. Halme details his struggle to refine Finnish stage diction toward a more musical, Kalevala‑inflected rhythm, punctuated by anecdotes about a farewell party, a comic correction of “helppotajuinen” to “halpahintainen,” and a reserved sleigh‑ride talk with Niilo Sala. A luminous spring in Viipuri and a successful test of his new speech method in Fulda’s Työlakko lead to a somber turn with Sala’s uneasy departure and later news of his death. The section closes with Oskar Merikanto’s praise and a playful staging of Ibsen’s Villisorsa, where real food on stage delights the house—and sends hungry spectators rushing to the buffet. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76445,908,'Reading ease score: 43.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76445,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76445,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76445,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76446,520,'"Yhdistysjuhla :  Huvinäytelmä kolmessa näytöksessä" by Gustav von Moser is a comedic play written in the late 19th century. It centers on the hullabaloo of a choral association’s festival and the domestic friction it sparks: attorney Bruno Scheffler’s eagerness to attend clashes with his principled wife Bertha, while the prosperous Bolzau household is drawn into the preparations, and two talkative bachelors, Hartwig and Steinkirsch, find themselves smitten with Bolzau’s closely guarded niece Ludmilla. Expect social satire, romantic misfires, and farcical complications around speeches, ceremonies, and propriety.  The opening of the play introduces Bertha tidying her husband’s study and dreading the coming festival as club functionary Schnake gushes about programs, speeches, and “sillitalkoot.” To stop Bruno from going, she burns his ribbon box, confronts him with the memory of last year’s drunken late return, and vows to leave if he attends; he stubbornly insists he will. Bruno’s friend Hartwig arrives with the urbane Steinkirsch; Bruno, flustered, fobs Steinkirsch off as a “secretary” to his wife and tries to billet him elsewhere. Steinkirsch unexpectedly reconnects with Ludmilla (whom he once helped in Baden-Baden), while Hartwig, instantly infatuated with the same “angel,” dashes off to find her. Meanwhile, at merchant Bolzau’s villa, his vigilant wife Vilhelmina frets over Ludmilla’s virtue as organizers press Bolzau into hosting duties; Bertha then turns up with a small bag, masking her marital quarrel with a story about a broken kitchen stove. The segment ends as Bruno appeals to Bolzau for help housing his guest and hints that his wife has already gone. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76446,908,'Reading ease score: 53.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76446,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76446,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76446,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76447,520,'"Lummox" by Fannie Hurst is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on Bertha, a big, working-class domestic servant in New York whose awkward speech masks a deep, lyrical inner life. Through her, the story explores class, exploitation, longing, and the clash between brute labor and refined art, particularly in her orbit around the Farley household and its poet son, Rollo.  The opening of the novel follows Bertha from her rough Front Street origins and loveless upbringing under Annie Wennerberg into six grinding years as the Farleys’ cook in Gramercy Park. Quietly enraptured by beauty—music, words, fabrics—she is noticed and briefly embraced by Rollo, who later turns her into poetry while pursuing a society debutante. When Bertha becomes pregnant and cannot make him acknowledge it, she leaves, drifts back to Front Street, and endures humiliating employment searches before taking night work as a charwoman. She gives birth suddenly and, destitute, surrenders the child to a respectable couple for adoption, then resumes her precarious round of jobs—her vast, mute inner life intact amid the city’s indifference. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76447,908,'Reading ease score: 83.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76447,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76447,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76448,520,'"The Little Review, April 1917 (Vol. 3, No. 10) by Various" is a literary magazine issue from the early 20th century. It showcases modernist criticism, poetry, and arts commentary, reflecting the era’s restless debates about aesthetic standards and the cultural tensions of wartime. The likely topic is the promotion and defense of new artistic values—especially in literature and performance—against conventional taste.  This issue features sharp critiques and advocacy pieces: a skeptical appraisal of Mary MacLane’s confessional Diary of Human Days, Margaret C. Anderson’s polemic against Isadora Duncan’s “pseudo-art,” and a pair of essays championing James Joyce’s A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, with extended quotations to illustrate its innovative style. The Vers Libre contest announces winners H. D. and Maxwell Bodenheim, prints additional free-verse entries by Aldington, O’Brien, Jeanne D’Orge, Stork, Ashleigh, Wolff, Sarah Bard Field, Miriam van Waters, and others, and offers candid editorial judgments on quality. There are announcements of a forthcoming Little Review bookshop and the major news that Ezra Pound will serve as Foreign Editor (with regular contributions from T. S. Eliot and access to Joyce and Wyndham Lewis), plus a lively readers’ section that debates recent performances and writing. The tone is combative, exploratory, and resolutely modern, eager to define what art is—and is not. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76448,908,'Reading ease score: 70.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76449,520,'"Professor Tim & Paul Twyning : Comedies in three acts" by George Shiels is a collection of stage comedies written in the early 20th century. It centers on rural Irish life, where pride, money, marriage, and local status collide with affection and common sense. The principal comedy follows down-on-his-luck horseman Hugh O’Cahan, practical Peggy Scally, her domineering mother, ambitious councillor James Kilroy, and Peggy’s shambolic but oddly gifted uncle, the so-called “Professor Tim,” a water-diviner. Expect lively banter, social satire, and farcical turns around an auction, a courtship, and a family’s hunger for respectability.  The opening of this collection introduces the Scally kitchen on the morning of Hugh O’Cahan’s auction: Peggy tries to end their romance by returning his costly gifts, while Mrs. Scally maneuvers to match Peggy with Joseph Kilroy, whose father plans to buy Hugh’s farm, Rush Hill. Into this walks “Professor Tim,” Briget Scally’s long-absent brother, a shabby, snuff-scented wanderer whom Briget tries to eject, though Peggy quietly shows him kindness. Act II shifts to Rush Hill, where housekeeper Moll Flanagan and groom Paddy Kinney brace for the sale; Paddy secretly dresses up to run up the bidding, while Peggy asks Hugh to call that evening and pockets the returned jewelry as a stake. The Professor divines springs under the house, then drifts to the auction as the rain forces the small, boycotted crowd indoors. When bidding begins, Paddy’s disguise goads Kilroy higher, tempers flare between Kilroy and Hugh, and the price climbs toward the bank’s reserve as the scene cuts off mid-sale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76449,908,'Reading ease score: 96.7 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76449,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76449,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76449,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76450,520,'Boblen by Edith Øberg is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on the intense, unequal friendship between Gudrun Haavaldsen, a poor, impulsive girl from a crowded home, and Berit Sørlie, the immaculate, sunlit child next door whom Gudrun idolizes as “the Bubble.” Through schoolroom rituals, a coveted garden, dollhouse play, and talk of futures, it probes class difference, social polish, ambition, and the pains of adolescent attachment.  The opening of the novel follows Gudrun spying through a fence at Berit on a swing, then meeting her at school and being seated beside her. Gudrun tutors Berit in arithmetic, is welcomed to the garden for coffee and waffles, and their bond forms—devotion from Gudrun, cool control from Berit—shaped by manners, language, and status. Gudrun remakes herself: she studies hard, drops rough play, cleans in a bookshop, and feeds their shared fantasies with magazine images, while Berit sets boundaries and refuses sentiment. At middle school a fashionable classmate, Else, draws Berit away; a brutal class favorite, Leif, repels Gudrun in a telling mimosa-plant scene. As autumn brings a shabby coat for Gudrun and a piano for Berit, jealousy and snobbery sharpen; Gudrun overhears Else and Berit belittling her, confronts Berit, and they quarrel. The section closes with Berit moving her things and seat to Else’s side, leaving Gudrun to wander off alone in the cold, devastated. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76450,908,'Reading ease score: 92.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76450,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76451,520,'"Lost Island" by Ralph Henry Barbour and H. P. Holt is a seafaring adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Brooklyn teenager Dave Hallard, a born sailor, who is stirred by tales of the South Seas and a mysterious wreck—the bark Hatteras—rumored to have carried a fortune in platinum. Drawn by the promise of adventure, he ships out, learns the hard realities of life at sea, and crosses paths with storms, derelicts, and distant islands. Expect classic nautical thrills—salvage gambles, shipboard rivalries, and hints of treasure—told as a coming‑of‑age voyage under the Southern Cross.  The opening of the novel begins with Dave hearing an old mariner’s account of sighting the wreck of the Hatteras near the Fanning–Christmas Islands and, at home, learning from his father’s clippings that the lost ship once carried platinum. Fired by the sea’s lure, he quietly signs on to the steamer Pacific Queen, leaves a note for his family, and endures rough apprenticeship: a kind but gruff cook (Barnes), a hostile mate (Quick), seasickness, and hard work. Mid‑voyage the crew tries to tow a derelict, the Miriam; she founders, the dories are nearly sucked down in the whirlpool, and Dave helps spot and save a drowning sailor. After rounding Cape Horn, he decides to leave the ship at Auckland to escape the mate’s rancor, boards briefly with kind locals, then—strapped for options—signs onto the decrepit tramp Kingfisher for Australia, immediately regretting the choice as its engineer decries the failing machinery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76451,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76451,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76451,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76451,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76451,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76452,520,'"Naples : Les légendes et la réalité" by Matilde Serao is a collection of literary essays written in the late 19th century. The work blends legend, folklore, and reflective reportage to portray Naples as a city where love, landscape, and daily life are inseparable, turning places, seasons, and memories into living myths.  The opening of the work sets Naples against the misty North, then reimagines the city’s birth through the love of Parthenope and Cimon, declaring Parthenope eternally alive in Naples. It celebrates and demystifies the legend of Virgil the Mage—his marvels for the city—before arguing that his true “magic” is poetry. A lyrical panorama of the gulf follows, characterizing each stretch of sea (Carmine, the Môle, Santa Lucia, Chiatamone, Mergellina, Pausilippe) as a different soul and destiny, ending with a stark legend of consolation in the waves. A suite of love-legends ties hills, islands, fountains, and the Vesuvius–Capri axis to passion and grief. The haunted Palazzo Donn’Anna frames a tale of jealousy between a powerful duchess and her rival, with love ending in disappearance and solitude. A darker story evokes a ghostly boat: Thécla and Aldo drowned by her husband Bruno, a scene said to reappear only to true lovers. The section closes by beginning the story of Cicho the Sorcerer in medieval Naples, a feared recluse whose “secret” is introduced as he turns from a pleasure-filled youth to a quest to benefit humankind. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76452,908,'Reading ease score: 69.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76453,520,'"Through unknown ways: An Old-World story" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set during the late Stuart era, it follows Dolly (Dorothy), a penniless but educated gentlewoman serving as companion to the sharp-tongued Lady Corbet, who keeps a secret diary of her trials, faith questions, and small hopes in London near Whitehall. Drawn between the kindness of Mrs. Williams, the patronage of Lady Clarenham and her kinsman Mr. Studley, and the charm of the dashing Captain Morley, Dolly navigates class and conscience amid mounting religious and political tensions. Hints of a family mystery—a sealed locket from Sir Charles Corbet—and the looming turmoil of the Monmouth period frame a story of moral testing and quiet courage.  The opening of the novel unfolds as Dolly is given a small room and a hidden cabinet in Sir Charles Corbet’s long-closed house; finding blank books, she resolves to keep a journal. She recounts her past—soldier father dead abroad, capable mother ruined by a sanctimonious cheat, schooling at Hackney, then orphaned service under Lady Corbet—and Sir Charles’s deathbed gift of a secret locket she must not open. From her new window near the park she glimpses court life as Charles II sickens and dies, James II ascends, and the city shifts mood; she meets the kind Lady Clarenham and earnest Mr. Studley, reads “The Pilgrim’s Progress,” and endures Lady Corbet’s stinginess and scorn. Captain Morley pays gallant court, provoking Ursula Robertson’s jealousy, while Mrs. Williams warns Dolly to guard her reputation; Morley departs north on military business. A stark scene follows when Dr. Bates and Mr. Pendergast solicit help for the prosecuted Richard Baxter: Lady Corbet grudges a pittance, but Dolly quietly gives her own gold. As rumors of unrest spread, Ursula’s betrothed Mr. Andrews dies and she hastily resolves to wed the wealthy Mr. Jackson—likely out of pique at news of Morley—leaving Dolly soberly chronicling these first turns of fortune and conscience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76453,908,'Reading ease score: 89.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76453,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76453,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76453,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76454,520,'"Little King Davie :  or, "Kings and priests unto God" by Nellie Hellis" is a children’s religious novella written in the late 19th century, during the Victorian era. The book follows a poor London crossing-sweeper whose brush with tragedy becomes the path to faith, dignity, and service, embodying the theme that even the lowliest can be “kings and priests unto God.”  Davie Scott, a small, underfed boy with a loving mother and a harsh past, earns coppers sweeping streets until a sermon about “kings and priests unto God” stirs him. Rushing to meet the preacher, he is run over and taken to hospital, where his sweetness and remarkable singing comfort other patients and earn him the name “King Davie.” With the practical kindness of Dr. Scott and Lady Cloudesley, and the gospel counsel of the visiting preacher, Mr. Kilmarnock, Davie finds faith and slowly recovers. A convalescent stay and improved home life follow; he becomes a church chorister and attends school through Lady Cloudesley’s help, then later moves with his family to a cathedral town under Mr. Kilmarnock’s care. There, healthier and joyful, Davie sings and serves, his quiet fidelity strengthening his mother’s faith, and the tale closes with the hope that his “kingly” service will endure beyond this life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76454,908,'Reading ease score: 77.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76454,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76454,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76454,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76454,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76455,520,'Sonnenländer by Walter Rummel is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. It follows a sun-seeking traveler through the tropics and subtropics—most vividly Japan and the Western Pacific—mixing vivid nature writing with keen observations of everyday life and custom. Readers can expect intimate portraits of people and places, as well as firsthand encounters with festivals, storms, rapids, and earthquakes.  The opening of this travelogue carries the narrator from Hamburg across the Atlantic to Cuba and Mexico, up through the blazing U.S. Southwest to California, then by steerage via Hawai‘i to Japan. In Yokohama he deliberately avoids European hotels for a Japanese-run inn, sketches its unfailingly courteous staff, and endures sweltering, mosquito-plagued nights before reveling in the city’s lantern-lit streets, theaters, and geisha performances. He wanders with his host Shibata through countryside inns and baths, eats simply with chopsticks, delights in children and village life, and traces the coast among fishermen. A stretch of relentless rain brings floods, taifun damage, a perilous cable-ferry river crossing, and a jarring earthquake in Yokohama. The section culminates in a breathtaking descent of the Tenryugawa rapids, lively temple festivals, and a hushed, reverent sojourn on Miyajima—an “island of the blessed” that prompts a reflective mood about old Japan. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76455,908,'Reading ease score: 69.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76455,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76456,520,'"Adolf Schreiber: Ein Musikerschicksal" by Max Brod is a biographical memoir written in the early 20th century. It portrays the gifted yet self-effacing composer and kapellmeister Adolf Schreiber as he struggles with poverty, self-doubt, and the indifferent machinery of the theater world, even as his songs reveal a rare, individual voice. The portrait blends intimate reminiscence, critical appreciation, and letters to show how a principled, hypersensitive artist repeatedly thwarted his own chances for recognition.  The opening of the memoir begins with Schreiber’s drowning at Wannsee and the author’s recollection of a failed 1913 public appeal to gain him performances. It depicts Schreiber’s extreme modesty and self-sabotage—his hostility to praise, his refusal of help—set against the narrator’s fervent advocacy of his songs (notably the Altenberg settings) and memories of their shared Prague youth, early musical enthusiasms, and Jewish background. The narrative then shows how lack of money trapped him in operetta posts across provincial stages, with rare opera chances yielding no lasting change, while contacts with publishers, singers, and even Humperdinck came to nothing. His style is sketched as simple yet original, with naive-seeming harmonic turns, illustrated through cycles after Morgenstern and Liliencron and marred by misfortunes like a bungled Berlin concert. The section closes with his marital separation, a draining love affair, the humiliation of being replaced at a premiere he prepared, and a friend’s letter recounting the days leading to his suicide and the theater’s callous aftermath. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76456,908,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76456,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76456,677);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76456,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76457,520,'"Hannele : 2-näytöksinen unirunoelma" by Gerhart Hauptmann is a two-act dream play written in the late 19th century. It centers on Hannele, a mistreated village girl rescued after a desperate act, whose fevered visions mingle harsh reality with mystical visitations. Around her gather a compassionate schoolmaster, a nursing sister, townsfolk, and the menacing shadow of her stepfather, while angels and the figure of Death suggest themes of innocence, suffering, and redemption.  The opening of the play unfolds in a storm-tossed poorhouse where beggars squabble until the teacher Gottvald and the woodcutter Seidel carry in the half-frozen Hannele, saved from an ice-hole. The district chief and a doctor are summoned, Sister Martha tends her, and Hannele—terrified of her brutal stepfather Mattern—speaks in religious fragments. Fever-dreams bloom: her dead mother brings a “heavenly key,” three angels sing, and a black angel of Death appears before a radiant sister-figure clothes Hannele as a bride and shields her. Gottvald returns with schoolchildren to sing farewell, villagers crowd in, marvel at her transformed beauty, whisper about a glass coffin, and blame Mattern. A drunken Mattern bursts in, only to be met by a gentle Stranger whose healing words address him as the scene breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76457,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Assumption_of_Hannele',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76457,908,'Reading ease score: 55.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76457,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76457,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76458,520,'"Juomalakko :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Vihtori Niemi is a one-act play written in the early 20th century. It portrays a working-class family’s struggle with alcoholism and the pressures of a society that profits from drink while preaching morality.  The action unfolds in a poor factory worker’s home. Sanna tries to keep the household afloat, even pawning belongings, while discussing Christian duty and the liquor trade’s harm with the servant Siina. Their daughter Sulo pleads with her father, Salu, to avoid the tavern, but he goes, mocking temperance. Siina returns with a sealed letter for Sulo from a “maisteri” and news of drunken brawls. Salu staggers back, violent and demanding money; he smashes the room and takes the family clock to pawn. A policeman later drags him in, and in a rage Salu knocks Sanna down, seemingly lifeless, until she revives. Shaken by the near-tragedy and urged by co-workers Sipi and Samppa, Salu agrees to a drinking strike; the men pledge collective abstinence, offering a sober, hopeful end. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76458,908,'Reading ease score: 55.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76458,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76459,520,'"Orígenes de la novela, Tomo III" by Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo is a literary-historical study and anthology written in the early 20th century. The volume examines the origins of the Spanish novel through “novelas dialogadas,” centering on La Celestina and its imitators, and pairs a substantial scholarly introduction with edited texts that illustrate language, style, and print conventions of the period. It combines close textual scholarship, source studies, and reception history to show how a dramatic form nourished both later theater and narrative fiction.  The opening of the volume begins with the transcriber’s notes on typographic conventions, a reordering of index and errata, and a table of contents that previews an extensive introduction followed by representative dialogued fictions. The introduction then argues that La Celestina, though fundamentally a dramatic poem rather than a novel, is indispensable to a history of the Spanish novel because of its realist method and enduring influence. It traces early editions and transformations from Comedia to Tragicomedia, details added acts and prologues, and parses paratexts (including Alonso de Proaza’s acrostics) to discuss authorship. The study presents Fernando de Rojas as the principal (indeed likely sole) author, reviewing bibliographic evidence and archival findings that identify him as a converso jurist from Puebla de Montalbán/Talavera, probably finishing the work as a young university man, with Salamanca and humanist Latin comedies as formative context. It emphasizes the book’s design for reading rather than stage performance and shows how its form, sources, and language shaped both Spanish drama and prose narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76459,908,'Reading ease score: 59.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76459,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76459,661);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76460,520,'"The art of fiction by Walter Besant" is a lecture-essay on literary criticism and the craft of novel-writing from the late 19th century, in the Victorian era. It argues that fiction is a fine art equal to painting, sculpture, music, and poetry, and concisely sets out what storytellers should aim to do.  The lecture advances three core claims: fiction is a true art; it is guided by general laws that can be learned; and, like other arts, it still requires innate talent. It defines fiction’s domain as humanity, praising its power to cultivate sympathy and to teach through selection, suppression, and suggestion. It lays down practical rules: rely on real observation and experience; keep human interest foremost; select only what advances character and story; present scenes dramatically; conceive characters clearly; believe wholly in the tale; and write with patient, finished style and a moral sense. It insists that story is indispensable, though invention cannot be taught, and urges studying the construction of great novels. An appendix offers direct advice to beginners on revising, seeking honest criticism, navigating publishers, and never paying to publish, closing with encouragement about the art’s present strength and future promise. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76460,908,'Reading ease score: 58.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76461,520,'"Voyage to the East Indies" by a S. Bartholomaeo Paulinus is a travel account written in the late 18th century. Based on a long residence in southern India, it blends geography, ethnography, linguistics, natural history, and colonial politics, with particular focus on the Coromandel and Malabar coasts. The narrative dwells on cities, rivers, trade, religions, and missionary work, while carefully correcting European misunderstandings of local languages and place-names. Readers interested in South Indian cultures and the early modern contest among European powers will find it especially informative.  The opening of the work follows the author’s arrival at Puduceri (Pondicherry): a perilous surf landing, a vivid contrast of seasons on India’s east and west coasts shaped by the Ghats, and first lodgings among Capuchins and French missionaries. He sketches the city’s fortifications, segregated quarters, and garrison, notes the role of sepoys and the rise of Hyder Ali, and criticizes French commerce that fed English strength; he also records encounters with white ants that ruin his belongings and a centipede “ear” incident cured by a missionary remedy. A visit to the seminary at Virapatnam reveals a tightly organized regimen of study, trades, and Latin, followed by a public procession of the sacred ox (Apis) and a discussion linking Indian cow/ox symbolism with Egyptian parallels; he remarks on local housing, church jurisdictions, and the entanglement of Capuchins, former Jesuits, and Missions Étrangères. He then corrects European place-names with etymologies, and broadens into a survey tying ancient and modern geographies, the rise of Mughal power, English revenues and monopolies, and concise portraits of Marava, Tanjore, and Madura—their rivers (Cavèri and Coleroon), crops, ports, and the political struggles that drew in European companies and their allies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76461,908,'Reading ease score: 63.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76461,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76461,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76462,520,'"The adventures of Heine" by Edgar Wallace is a collection of espionage stories written in the early 20th century. The narrative follows Heine, a boastful German secret agent, as he recounts his wartime exploits in Britain with sardonic humor and self-aggrandizing flair. Expect sly reversals, covert schemes, and satirical portraits of both spies and the supposed “enemy,” all filtered through Heine’s unreliable bravado.  The opening of the narrative finds Heine reassigned from New York to London at the outbreak of war, where he quickly deploys agents using quirky identifiers and basks in his own cleverness. His star operative, Alexander Koos, courts a Woolwich engineer’s daughter for armament secrets but is outplayed by a young woman from British Intelligence and executed, forcing Heine to flee to Scotland. There, a supposed ally on a Highland hill proves to be a Swiss forger; Heine escapes while his colleague is arrested. Shifted to industrial propaganda in Manchester, Heine funds a fiery labor agitator, targets a chemical firm’s secret grenade plans, and clashes with the enigmatic Miss Harrymore—stealing a march on her by denouncing her as a German spy—only to learn she was actually a German agent, leaving him to spin a face-saving report as the section closes with mention of another captured operative and the introduction of Mister Haynes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76462,908,'Reading ease score: 78.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76463,520,'"Bog-trotting for orchids" by Grace Greylock Niles is an illustrated nature travelogue written in the early 20th century. It follows an avid orchid hunter across the bogs, streams, and hills of the Hoosac Valley, blending engaging field notes with local geology, folklore, and a strong conservation ethic. Readers can expect intimate portraits of lady’s slippers and other wildflowers, vivid scenes of Berkshire and Bennington landscapes, and reflective episodes with the author’s trusty hound and curious local children.  The opening of this work sets the scope and mood: a preface locates the Hoosac Valley within the Taconic Mountains, notes the richness of North American orchids, and frames the excursions as seasonal searches for both orchids and their companion plants. The first chapters trace the author’s route from New York through New Haven to North Adams, with early field stops featuring walking fern, azaleas, and the dramatic setting of Mount Greylock and the Hoosac Tunnel. She then undertakes strenuous “bog-trotting” along Ball Brook and the Bogs of Etchowog, finding pink and yellow lady’s slippers, pitcher plants and sundews, and naming a lush ravine the Glen of Comus, while describing the hazards of quaking peat and “dead holes.” A local girl leads to the rare Ram’s-Head lady’s slipper, prompting close botanical description; a later episode laments children stripping blooms and the trade in medicinal roots, segueing into concise notes on orchid pollination from Gray and Darwin. The section closes with the first pale blooms of the queenly showy lady’s slipper, sightings of green and white Habenaria, a search for the showy orchis, and observations on the variable yellow Cypripediums. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76463,908,'Reading ease score: 69.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76463,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76463,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76463,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76464,520,'"The dialogues of Plato in five volumes, Vol. 2 (of 5) :  Translated into…." by B. Jowett is a scholarly translation and commentary written in the late 19th century. The volume presents English translations of several Platonic dialogues alongside analyses and introductions. Its focus is Socratic philosophy—questions of virtue, knowledge, justice, rhetoric, and the soul—designed to guide readers through both the texts and their philosophical stakes.  The opening of the volume lays out editorial notes about formatting and sidenotes, a contents list (including Meno, Euthyphro, Apology, Crito, Phaedo, and Gorgias), and then turns to an extensive introduction to Meno. Jowett sketches the dialogue’s central question—whether virtue can be taught—showing how Socrates first demands a definition of virtue, dismantles Meno’s shifting answers, and contrasts “right opinion” with knowledge; he also previews the appearance of Anytus and the claim that statesmen act by inspired opinion rather than teachable knowledge. He introduces Plato’s theory of recollection and immortality as a response to the paradox of inquiry, and broadens the discussion with reflections on the ideas, their treatment across other dialogues, and comparisons with later philosophy. The text then begins Meno itself: Meno asks if virtue is teachable; Socrates insists they define virtue; Meno offers definitions (virtue by role, then power to rule, then desire and ability to obtain good), each of which Socrates refutes or shows to be circular. After Meno likens Socrates to a numbing torpedo, Socrates answers the inquiry-paradox by invoking recollection and demonstrates it with a slave-boy, who, through questioning, moves from confident error to recognizing his ignorance as a step toward learning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76464,908,'Reading ease score: 74.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76464,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76464,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76465,520,'"Écrits spirituels de Charles de Foucauld : ermite au Sahara, apôtre des…." by Charles de Foucauld is a collection of spiritual writings written in the early 20th century. Drawn from private letters, meditations, and retreat notes, it reveals a hermit’s contemplative life, ardent charity, and practical approach to prayer and faith across the Sahara and the Holy Land. Expect intimate devotional pages rather than a formal treatise, emphasizing adoration, humility, interior conversion, and gentle outreach to Muslims.  The opening of the volume begins with a preface by René Bazin, who sketches Foucauld’s path (explorer, Trappist, desert hermit) and explains the editorial approach: private texts are excerpted, not published whole, and the aim is to present usable spiritual fragments. He describes excluded pieces—especially a catechetical “Gospel for the poor of the Sahara” crafted to introduce Christian truths gradually to Muslims—and highlights the author’s purity, tender piety, humility, and courageous maxims. The first section, “Le Trappiste,” offers letters and Gospel meditations on prayer: adoration, solitary and nocturnal prayer, bold and persevering petitions, praying for enemies and sinners, guarding the soul as a “house of prayer,” and trusting God without fear. It then turns to the Nazareth period, opening a retreat in which the writer prays before the exposed Eucharist, seeks to know and do God’s will, and contemplates divine beauty reflected in creation, resolving to see and love only God through all things. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76465,908,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76466,520,'"Glimpses of the dark ages :  or, Sketches of the social condition of Europe,…." is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. It surveys European society from the fall of Rome to the dawn of medieval civilization, emphasizing social structures, beliefs, morals, and daily life rather than dynastic politics or battles. Early chapters trace the collapse of Rome, the ascendancy and influence of the Church, the rise of monasticism and feudalism, and the growth of towns, drawing on familiar historians to present an accessible social history.  The opening of this work sets out its scope—social life from the fifth to the twelfth century—and then vividly recounts Alaric’s sack of Rome, noting both devastation and the relative protection afforded to Christians and their churches. From that event the author pivots to diagnose Rome’s moral and civic decay: imperial despotism, extravagant nobles, idle plebeians, pervasive slavery, compromised Christianity, and a decline in arts and letters, framed as divine retribution. He sketches the barbarians (especially the Goths), subsequent shocks from Attila and Odoacer to Charlemagne, and argues that the invasions demolished corrupt ancient forms while supplying new elements for medieval society. The Church then takes center stage: bishops managing civic life and shaping law (notably in Visigothic Spain), the growth of papal supremacy, and the papacy’s mixed social legacy—intellectual control, legal encroachments, interdicts, but occasional mediation and cultural exchange. A section on superstition shows accommodation to pagan customs (Gregory the Great’s policy), imported myths (e.g., St. Nicholas), ordeals (including the corsned), riotous festivals (Feast of Fools and Asses), and credulous or fraudulent miracle tales. On morals, the narrative highlights militarized clergy, simony, clerical immorality, and formalism among the laity, yet also notes charitable preaching, almsgiving, manumission of slaves, sanctuary rights, and the Truce of God as genuine social restraints. It closes this opening portion by beginning a survey of learning and art, crediting the Church with preserving letters during the nadir of the seventh century and tracing the uneven, migratory revival of learning across Ireland, England, France, Germany, and Italy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76466,908,'Reading ease score: 49.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76466,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76466,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76466,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76467,520,'"Dans les Entrailles de la Terre by Séverine" is an investigative reportage written in the early 20th century. The piece examines the perilous lives of French coal miners, brought into stark focus by the catastrophic Courrières disaster, and emphasizes the daily hazards, grinding poverty, and moral urgency of reform.  The narrative moves from public shock to sustained critique, setting the Courrières tragedy against a long history of “smaller” but frequent mine deaths. It vividly depicts the underground ordeal—crawling in narrow, dark galleries under constant threat of water bursts and firedamp—alongside meager wages diminished by obligatory expenses. Through poignant vignettes, it shows bereaved families, such as a widow dyeing her family’s few garments black, a young wife undone by grief, and artisanship like crucifixes carved from bone. It exposes unsafe company housing above shifting ground, while honoring miners’ courage during rescues, from refusing to butcher a dead pit horse to the loyal dog mourning its masters. The author descends into a deadly pit between explosions and visits a hospital of burned and suffocating survivors, closing with a forceful appeal for justice, lasting safety measures, and humane consideration for those who toil in the earth’s depths. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76467,908,'Reading ease score: 68.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76467,698);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76467,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76467,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76467,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76468,520,'"Niin kävi kuin pitikin :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Emmi Haapanen is a one-act stage play written in the early 20th century. Set in a rural Finnish household around a harvest work party, it portrays the clash between parental ambition and youthful choice, as village gossip, greed, and questions of honesty mount toward a public reckoning.  Karilan isäntä schemes to marry his daughter Lissu to the newly rich Värälän Venni, whose money he hopes to harness for a mill and saw venture, while Lissu loves the modest Patolan Kusti. Despite the mother’s cautions and Lautamies Lieto’s misgivings, the father pushes ahead until the harvest dance exposes everything: Venni’s arrogance meets Lissu’s firm refusal, and the police arrive to arrest Venni for stealing the Patola family’s inheritance. With Venni unmasked, Lieto urges the father to save the family’s honor by blessing Lissu and Kusti. After bluster and hesitation, the father yields, the true couple’s engagement is announced, and the household’s peace is restored—just as the title promises. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76468,908,'Reading ease score: 55.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76468,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76468,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76469,520,'"Maan siunaus :  Romaani" by Knut Hamsun is a novel written in the early 20th century. It portrays the founding of a homestead in the northern wilderness, following the tireless settler Iisakki and the capable Inkeri as they wrest a living from forest and bog, gather livestock, and turn rough ground into fields. Themes include the dignity of manual labor, the rhythms of nature, and the slow making of home and family far from town.  The opening of the novel follows a solitary man, Iisakki, trekking north through marsh and forest until he chooses a site, throws up a turf hut, and begins clearing land, first with goats and ingenious contrivances to manage them alone. Seeking “women’s help,” he eventually finds Inkeri, a strong, shy woman with a harelip, who stays, milks, brings sheep, and later returns with a cow, Mansikki. Iisakki hauls logs, raises a proper house, replaces a stone hearth with a stove, and steadily adds to their stock; worries that the cow might be stolen are eased when a visiting kinswoman, Ulla, confirms its origin. A son, Elias, is born; the pair marry and have the child baptized. Iisakki acquires a horse, cart, plow, and harrow on credit, expands fields, and sows barley while relying on hardy potatoes; a long drought burns the grain, but late rains salvage a decent potato crop. Everyday life is built from toil and small triumphs—new sheds, a harness room, cheese-making, and clever fixes after mishaps like a young bull breeding too early. By winter he sells firewood to clear debts and brings home comforts such as a lamp and a wall clock, marking the homestead’s steady rise from rough hut to a living farm. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76469,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Growth_of_the_Soil',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76469,908,'Reading ease score: 50.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76469,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76469,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76470,520,'"An introduction to the theory of value : On the lines of Menger, Weiser, and…." by William Smart is an introductory economics treatise written in the late 19th century. It lays out the Austrian School’s view that value is rooted in subjective judgments of utility and scarcity, showing how personal valuations, not inherent properties of goods, give rise to prices. Smart’s aim is to translate and clarify the ideas of Menger, Wieser, and Böhm-Bawerk for English readers, stressing marginal utility, the demand side of value, and the bridge from personal appraisals to market prices. It will appeal to readers seeking a clear, student-friendly foundation in value and price theory.  The opening of this treatise frames the work through brief prefaces and a roadmap of chapters, then defines value with care: distinguishing subjective (personal) value from objective (capacity-based) measures, and criticizing the old “use value vs. exchange value” division. It argues that utility is broader than value and that value appears when a want is felt to depend on a specific good, introducing marginal utility via vivid cases (the sailor’s biscuits, Crusoe’s corn) to explain why scarcity and the last satisfied want set value. Subsequent sections handle complications (durable vs. perishable goods, groups of “complementary goods,” capitalized value), clarify “foreign” or indirect valuations when losses are shifted, and show how usefulness and scarcity jointly set the marginal level. The text then separates subjective from objective exchange value, explains money’s role as anticipated use value, and moves to price formation under competition, deriving market price from the meeting of many subjective valuations—the marginal pair of buyers and sellers that sets the going rate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76470,908,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76470,696);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76471,520,'"Vintermyren :  berättelse" by Astrid Väring is a novel written in the early 20th century. It likely traces a young farmhand, Mats Jonsson, as he struggles between the pull of his home soil and the hard streets of a northern Swedish town, seeking learning, dignity, and justice. His inner battles—over love for the now‑married Anna‑Greta and against the power of the wealthy patron Grubb—unfold alongside vivid evocations of land, folklore, and social hierarchy.  The opening of the novel follows Mats trudging through thawing streets, thinking of spring and the “winter bog,” whose mythic vittra mirrors his temptation and longing. He boards with the taciturn fisherman Öberg, studies among children at the poor school, and is mocked as a “bonnhyvel,” while privately he wrestles with books, numbers, and old devotional texts in search of firm truth. Memories of Anna‑Greta and fevered night‑visions nearly drive him back, but he resists through prayer and resolve. Offered a coveted free place at the elite town school—funded by Grubb, the merchant he holds responsible for his family’s ruin—he refuses rather than live indebted to an enemy. He resolves to find honest work and a straighter path to redress, as the scene closes with talk in town of draining the perilous myrland—a public concern that echoes Mats’s personal fight with the forces that swamp his life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76471,908,'Reading ease score: 80.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76471,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76472,520,'"Celebrated naval and military trials" by Peter Burke is a collection of historical accounts written in the mid-19th century. It assembles notable British naval and army cases—part biography, part battle narrative, part courtroom record—to explore duty, mutiny, piracy, and political scandal. Prominent figures include Admiral Benbow, Captain Kidd, and Admiral Byng, with attention to how law, war, and public opinion collide.  The opening of the work lists its cases and immediately narrates Admiral Benbow’s career and last action: his rise from merchant captain, the famed Cadiz episode with the brined heads, and the 1702 pursuit of Du Casse in the West Indies, where most of his captains held back while he fought on and was maimed; a French letter praises his bravery and denounces his officers, court-martials in Jamaica condemn Kirby and Wade, and Benbow dies soon after. It then turns to Captain Kidd, who, commissioned to hunt pirates, succumbs to piracy himself, captures the Quedagh Merchant, triggers a political uproar in London, faces a detailed Old Bailey trial where pleas about a French pass and a general pardon fail, and is executed. A third section sketches the bitter soldier–civilian friction after 1688 via two Scottish cases: townsmen who kill Major Menzies after he stabs a town clerk are acquitted, while a writer who fatally wounds a soldier is condemned. The excerpt closes as the Byng chapter begins, outlining his family’s distinction, his service, the Minorca crisis, and ministerial unpreparedness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76472,908,'Reading ease score: 60.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76472,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76472,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76472,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76472,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76472,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76473,520,'"Storia della città di Roma nel medio evo, vol. 1/8 : dal secolo V al XVI." by Ferdinando Gregorovius is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. It examines the civic life and transformation of Rome from late antiquity into the Renaissance era, focusing on the interplay of ancient municipal traditions, imperial claims, and papal supremacy. Drawing on original documents, monuments, and topography, it offers a comprehensive portrait of Rome’s politics, society, religion, and urban fabric across the medieval centuries.  The opening of the work introduces the editor’s note on the first Italian translation, acknowledging the author’s corrections and the care taken in printing, followed by the author’s preface outlining the aim: to fill the gap in Rome’s medieval civic history. Gregorovius stakes out his central thesis of three enduring “rights” shaping Rome—republican municipalism, imperial monarchy, and papal dominion—sets the scope from the Visigothic sack to the Sack under Clement VII, and explains his method of uniting archival research with the study of ruins and monuments, while noting the deep German–Italian historical ties. He then frames Rome’s uniqueness by contrasting it with Jerusalem and Athenian civilization, tracing the passage from imperial centralization to the Church’s universal authority and the medieval reverence for Rome as spiritual, political, and cultural center. Finally, he begins a topographical survey of late imperial Rome—its walls, gates, roads, aqueducts, and especially the fourteen regions—moving region by region from the Porta Capena through the Caelian and Colosseum districts, along the Via Sacra and imperial fora, across the Esquiline and Quirinal with the great baths, and into the Forum Romanum and Capitoline, which he presents as the stage for the story to follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76473,908,'Reading ease score: 37.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76473,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76473,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76473,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76474,520,'"A year in China : and a narrative of capture and imprisonment, when homeward…." by Mrs. H. Dwight Williams is a travel memoir and captivity narrative written in the mid-19th century. It follows an American woman’s year-long journey to and within China, recorded en route through African and Indian Ocean ports, with keen observations on places, peoples, missions, and colonial life, and culminates in her capture aboard the Confederate raider Florida while returning home. Expect vivid sea passages, ethnographic sketches, and city portraits of Hong Kong, Macao, Canton, and Swatow from the perspective of the wife of a customs commissioner.  The opening of the work begins with an introductory note by William Cullen Bryant explaining the new American interest in China, the foreign customs service that employs the author’s husband, and a hint of the captivity episode that closes the narrative. Chapter I recounts departure from New York on the steamer Poyang, early seasickness and shipboard devotions, coaling at the Cape Verde island of St. Vincent (where the ship is briefly mistaken for a rebel cruiser), glimpses of the West African coast near Liberia with fishermen bartering from canoes, a sodden equatorial crossing, and detailed impressions of St. Paul de Loanda—its forts, fading slave-trade legacy, mixed languages, coerced labor gangs singing as they coal, and vigilant British consular oversight. Chapter II covers a bureaucratic delay at Luanda, a brisk run down the desolate Namib coast, the odd noon “shadowless” moment under the sun, fog-bound entry to Table Bay, Sunday worship at St. George’s Cathedral with a choir of Kaffir boys, a roaring “black southeaster,” and a day of exploring Cape Town’s shops, racially mixed civic life, the government-backed Kaffir College (workshops, chapel, and curriculum), the museum and library (notable natural history and ethnographic displays), botanical garden, industrial schools, and ambitious public works. At the start of Chapter III the ship leaves Cape Town past the Cape of Good Hope, meets outbound vessels, crosses a swath of “whale’s feed” and an American whaler hungry for news, and glides into the Indian Ocean under brilliant southern skies and the Southern Cross while nearing Madagascar—the point at which the excerpt ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76474,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76474,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76474,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76474,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76475,520,'"A jázminok illata" by Ernő Szép is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. Lyrical, impressionistic, and deeply humane, it sketches Hungarian small-town and city life through fleeting encounters, secret romances, and sharp portraits of ordinary people. Themes of yearning, transience, and the ache of beauty run through scenes of promenades, church gardens, bridges, bodegas, and shops, seen through sensitive outsiders and restless hearts.  The opening of this collection moves from a dissolving evening promenade into a jasmine-scented church garden, where a lanky young man meets the volatile Piroska for a breathless, anxious exchange about escape, dread, and desire before she bolts into the dark. It then shifts to a first-person meditation on a bridge at dusk, observing passersby and spiraling into reflections on anonymity, compassion, memory, and the pull of infinity. Next comes the vignette of Szoboszlai Gábor, a staggering horse-dealer who declares his own name as he haggles and laments on conscription day. A tobacco-shop scene follows, with Nelli humming a wistful tune as she tends the small trade, thinks of a vanished correspondent-soldier, and quietly fights back tears. The section closes with two drunks arriving at a bodega before dawn, their clumsy gallantry and soda-water farce providing a rueful comic coda. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76475,908,'Reading ease score: 65.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76475,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76476,520,'"Missing men by Vincent Starrett" is a detective short story written in the early 20th century. It follows the cool-headed sleuth Lavender as he probes a spate of puzzling disappearances in Chicago. The likely topic is a web of vanishing men tied to the theatre, stage identities, and a family secret that has been carefully hidden.  When a picture broker named Peter Vanderdonck, a popular comedian named Charles Merritt, and finally the wealthy Cyril Minor all seem to vanish, Lavender pieces together odd clues: a nearly unused office, greasepaint traces at a washstand, a safe, and a newspaper note about actress Sidney Kane. He deduces that Merritt and Vanderdonck are the same person—and then that Minor is both of them, living a double (and triple) life to avoid publicity while secretly reunited with his former wife, Sidney Kane. A suspicious telegram signed “Father” instead of “Dad” sends Lavender and Minor’s daughter, Shirley, to Kane’s suburban home, where the truth emerges: Kane is Shirley’s mother; she and Minor have remarried, and Minor—struck ill—has been convalescing there under the cover story of an “invalid brother.” The disappearances are thus revealed as a theatrical masquerade rather than crime, ending in a family reconciliation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76476,908,'Reading ease score: 84.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76477,520,'"Skinny McCord" by Percy Keese Fitzhugh is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set at Temple Camp, it follows shy, sensitive scout Skinny McCord whose fierce loyalty to his runaway half-brother, Danny, collides with the ideals and disciplines of scouting. As Danny schemes to hide in plain sight by impersonating a delayed camper, Skinny’s sudden bursts of courage thrust him into camp-wide attention and difficult choices.  The opening of the novel shows Skinny losing his compass and being good-naturedly teased around the campfire, then slipping back alone to search—just as a furtive newcomer arrives at the road above camp. That boy is Danny, Skinny’s half-brother, freshly escaped from a reform school, who finds a letter about a camper named Danville Bently delaying his arrival and decides to use the identity to shelter at Temple Camp. Terrified yet loyal, Skinny sneaks his new scout suit and Handbook to Danny, then, to raise money to help him flee, pulls off two daring feats in one night and morning: “lifting” a rival patrol’s white pennant and swimming across Black Lake to win the Hiawatha prize canoe. His plan to sell the canoe to a rich, disgruntled scout, Helmer Clarkson, fails, and Skinny endures chilly treatment from his own patrol while Danny brazenly registers and blends in as a new arrival. The stage is set for a tense clash between loyalty, honesty, and identity within the bustling life of Temple Camp. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76477,908,'Reading ease score: 82.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76477,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76477,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76477,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76477,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76478,520,'"Jälleen vapaana :  Runoja by Hilja Liinamaa-Pärssinen is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. It is a socially engaged, lyrically rich book that explores freedom and justice, the calling and peril of the poet, women’s agency, workers’ lives, exile and hunger, alongside portraits of historical rebels and seekers of truth.  The collection opens with powerful poems about the poet’s mission and rejection (“Laulajan rukous,” “Laulajan häätö”), the grief of displacement and famine (“Pakolaisen valitus,” “Nälkämailla”), and solidarity with workers, women, and the poor (“Suffrageetta,” “Laulu työläisnaiselle,” “Karjalan raatajille,” “Veljestyö”). A dramatic set piece on an island prison (“Autiosaarella”) frames steadfast resistance. The “Historiallisia” section reimagines figures from antiquity to modernity—Alcibiades, Mary Stuart, Spinoza, the Paris Commune’s dead, Babeuf—as mirrors for courage, betrayal, and endurance. “Ystävyys” gathers intimate, tender lyrics of care, parting, and longing; “Mielialoja” captures seasonal turns, prisoned May Day, and the insistence that life prevails; and “Mietelmiä” condenses sharp epigrams on hypocrisy, power, marriage, and sham piety. Closing pieces (“Uskonto,” “Mies”) strip away man-made idols and define true integrity as devotion to justice and the common good. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76478,908,'Reading ease score: 53.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76478,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76479,520,'"Kuolevan laulun mailta :  ynnä Pohjan saloilta" by Lauri Hannikainen is a collection of travel sketches and folkloric vignettes written in the early 20th century. It evokes the landscapes, rituals, and voices of Viena Karelia and the Far North, blending lyrical observation with brief narrative scenes. A Finnish youth immerses himself in a Karelian village, meeting hunters, healers, and famed runo singers, while the book reflects on the beauty and fragility of traditions facing modern change.  The opening of the work moves from an enchanted arrival in Viena’s backwoods to a haunting night on the ice when a swan—felt as a Tuonela omen—passes untouched. Wedding laments and a maiden’s final sauna ritual speak in heightened verse, while the narrator, revealed as educated, addresses the village about homeland and God before a fervent dance and bittersweet farewell. Brief portraits dwell on kantele music at dusk, a wary sage-singer who opens up to recite epics and spells, and a visit to the renowned Pedri Shemeikka: his kantele gone to collectors, a new one carved, but he can no longer tune it—soon followed by his elegiac funeral. The tone is elegy and love letter at once, as customs and song seem to fade. The scene then shifts north: a taciturn Lapland boy reveals, in one tender line, the loss of his mother, and a gently comic camp tale shows a guileless logger taking seriously a prank about “turning the moon,” slipping away to set things right. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76479,908,'Reading ease score: 53.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76480,520,'"Sir William Flower" by Richard Lydekker is a scientific biography written in the early 20th century. It profiles the eminent comparative anatomist and museum reformer Sir William Henry Flower, tracing his path from a nature‑obsessed boy and army surgeon to Conservator of the Royal College of Surgeons’ museum and Director of the Natural History Museum. The work highlights his research on mammals (notably whales), his anthropological studies, and his pioneering ideas on museum display and scientific nomenclature.  The opening of the book sketches Flower’s early life, self‑propelled love of natural history, and medical training, followed by his Crimean War service and return to London, where he combined hospital duties with research, married into a scientifically connected family, and began publishing. It then moves to his decisive shift from medical practice to the Royal College of Surgeons, his rise to Hunterian Professor, and his growing public presence—honours, society leadership, and advocacy on animal welfare and conservation—alongside a portrait of his character and final years. The narrative next details his museum achievements: enlarged and clearer human anatomy displays, exemplary preparation and mounting of skeletons, a comparative “homologous bones” series, and catalogues that integrated recent and fossil material, together with firm, commonsense views on stabilising nomenclature and resisting needless generic splitting. His Hunterian lectures—on mammalian osteology and dentition, cetaceans, digestive organs, and the physical anthropology of diverse peoples—are summarized, including the influential textbook that grew from them. Finally, it introduces his Directorship of the Natural History Museum and the creation of the educational Index Museum with realistic taxidermy, lucid labels, and distribution maps, and signals his push to bridge the divide between biology and paleontology, leading into his reorganisation of the mammal gallery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76480,908,'Reading ease score: 37.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76480,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76480,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76480,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76481,520,'"Mantegna and Francia" by Julia Cartwright is an illustrated art-historical biography written in the late 19th century. It traces the lives, works, and influence of the Renaissance painters Andrea Mantegna and Francesco Francia, setting their art within the culture, patrons, and workshops of Northern and Central Italy.  The opening of the book focuses on Mantegna: it sketches the rise of the Paduan school, his training under Squarcione, and the bold innovations of his Eremitani frescoes—sculptural forms, exacting perspective, classical detail, and close study of nature—shaped by Donatello, Paolo Uccello, and his ties to the Bellini family. It follows his move to Mantua, key commissions such as the San Zeno altarpiece, the Uffizi triptych, the celebrated St. Sebastian and Dead Christ, and the courtly portraits and illusionistic oculus of the Camera degli Sposi. Letters reveal Gonzaga patronage and the artist’s irascible temperament, alongside his major Roman venture (now lost) and his engravings, which extend his range from sacred drama to classical themes. A detailed account of the Triumphs of Julius Caesar highlights his learned classicism, rhythmic composition, and refined colour. The narrative then surveys late works—the Parnassus and Wisdom over the Vices, the Madonna della Vittoria, other altarpieces and drawings, and an unrealized Virgil monument—before turning to his final years: mounting debts, family troubles, yet undimmed invention in works like the later St. Sebastian and the Triumph of Scipio, ending with him seeking aid from Isabella d’Este. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76481,908,'Reading ease score: 54.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76481,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76481,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76481,661);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76482,520,'The story of Chanukah by Benjamin Sacks is a brief historical and religious account written in the early 20th century. The book explains the origins and meaning of the Jewish festival of Chanukah, focusing on the Maccabean revolt and the rededication of the Temple in Jerusalem.  The narrative traces events from the breakup of Alexander the Great’s empire through Seleucid rule over Judea, highlighting the corruption of the High Priesthood under Jason and Menelaus and the brutal persecutions of Antiochus IV. It recounts the attempted plunder of the Temple by Heliodorus, the decrees banning Jewish practice, and the martyrdoms of Eleazar and of Hannah’s seven sons. Resistance begins with Mattathias and his five sons, especially Judas Maccabeus, who leads daring victories over Apollonius, Seron, Nicanor, and Gorgias, forcing Lysias to retreat. The rebels purify and rededicate the defiled Temple, and the Talmudic miracle of the single cruse of oil burning eight days affirms divine favor. The account concludes with the establishment of the eight-day festival of dedication, marked by lights and thanksgiving. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76482,908,'Reading ease score: 68.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76482,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76482,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76482,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76483,520,'"What is truth? by W. D. Wattles" is a metaphysical-philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. It explores the nature of reality—time, space, substance, consciousness, motion—and argues that a single conscious, divine substance underlies all things, shaping the world through will; its central topic is how aligning with this reality leads to human health and abundance.  The book proceeds step by step: time and space are real, boundless frameworks; the many “materials” are forms of one fluid substance that can become solid or ethereal by pressure and motion. Consciousness belongs to substance itself, not to empty space or mere brain activity; in humans it can expand toward completeness. Motion is substance shifting in space and time, and every “force” reduces to pressure of substance—there is no attraction across a vacuum. The origin of motion is the will of Original Conscious Substance (God), whose will-pressure produces light, heat, gravity, and chemical affinity, and whose motive is the happiness of all. Man, as conscious substance in a human form, can cooperate with this will; by persistently recognizing divine life and abundance—through affirmation, prayer, and alignment—he becomes whole in health and supplied in all needs, while the habitual recognition of disease or lack perpetuates them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76483,908,'Reading ease score: 63.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76483,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76483,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76484,520,'Der Schatz der Sierra Madre by B. Traven is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in Mexico, it follows the down-and-out American drifter Dobbs as he hustles for meals, seeks work around oil fields, and navigates the rough edges of port-city life. The story probes poverty, luck, and the lure of quick wealth on a volatile frontier. Early on he pairs with another drifter, Barber, and crosses paths with a hard-bitten contractor, hinting at larger ventures to come.  The opening of the novel places Dobbs penniless in a Mexican port, cadging coins from strangers, renting a cot in the squalid Oso Negro, and surviving on cheap coffee, bread, and chance. He teams up with Barber to hunt work in the oil districts, riding ferries amid tankers and refineries, scrounging a shipboard meal, and tramping through bush and villages while being dogged by a fearful Indian who clings to them for safety; a tense night in a tree ends farcically when their “tiger” proves a tethered donkey. After failing to find jobs in the camps, they return; Dobbs does brief loading work, then, by luck, is snatched up at the ferry by contractor Pat McCormick to help rig a new camp. A brisk, detailed sequence follows: clearing and hauling, throwing up barracks and a derrick, laying pipes and pumps, dragging in boilers and engines, and switching on electric light that banishes the jungle night. The section closes with the reminder that oil is a gamble—fortunes boom and bust—and Dobbs, raw from the labor, asks his contractor about his pay. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76484,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Treasure_of_the_Sierra_Madre',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76484,908,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76484,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76484,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76484,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76484,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76485,520,'"Sämtliche Werke 19 : Die Erniedrigten und Beleidigten" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky is a novel written in the mid-19th century. It unfolds as a Petersburg tale of love, pride, and humiliation, narrated by the young writer Ivan Petrovich as he looks back on a tragic year. The story centers on his bond with Natascha Ichmenyeva, her devoted but embattled parents, and their entanglement with the calculating Prince Valkovsky and his impressionable son Alyosha. Expect intimate psychology, social cruelty, and the aching vulnerability of people poised between tenderness and ruin.  The opening of the novel follows Ivan’s search for a new room, his fascination with a decrepit old man and his ancient dog in a German confectionery, and a silent confrontation that ends with the dog’s sudden death and, moments later, the old man’s collapse and demise in a nearby alley. Ivan helps identify the man as Jeremias Smitt, finds his stark poverty, and then rents his cheap garret, framing his tale from a hospital bed as he prepares to recount the last, hardest year. He sketches his past: orphaned and raised with Natascha by the kind Ichmenyev family, idyllic childhood memories, and the rise and souring of their ties to Prince Valkovsky, including the prince’s biography, the banishment of Alyosha to the estate, slanders, a lawsuit, and the family’s move to Petersburg. He recalls his first literary success and a tender, tacit engagement with Natascha, before hinting that, a year later, he returns shattered, as if an unseen catastrophe has opened an abyss between them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76485,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humiliated_and_Insulted',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76485,908,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76485,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76485,650);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76485,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76486,520,'"Der Hafen" by Norbert Jacques is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on Baptist Biver, a sensitive, wayward young man in a small city, caught between music, illicit temptations, and the rigid expectations of his domineering father, with his loyal sister Jeanne as his moral and emotional anchor. The story appears to probe small‑town mores, class pretenses, and the yearning for inner change, with the fairground and an Italian performer amplifying Baptist’s conflict between desire and self‑respect.  The opening of the novel presents an intimate household: Jeanne plays piano while Baptist drifts between reverie and resentment, their father Alois intruding with harsh discipline and scorn. Baptist confesses exam anxiety, hints at a secret fascination with Rosa, a tambourine player at the Schobermesse, and then impulsively steals gold coins from his father’s safe before dinner. Later he slips out to the fair, sits with two acquaintances, lavishes champagne on the Italian band, and is both soothed and inflamed by the music, even taking the violin himself. A notorious brawler, Heng, insults him and his family’s money, triggering a fight in which Baptist is struck and bloodied; the crowd disperses, and a few tough schoolmates hustle him away and help him search fruitlessly for the Italians. Near dawn, tired and chastened, he rides home through the empty streets, wavering between lust and restraint and thinking of Jeanne’s regard. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76486,908,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76486,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76486,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76487,520,'"Folkhumor : Skämtsagor och historier från olika länder för ung och gammal" by Grip is a collection of humorous folktales written in the early 20th century. It gathers comic, trickster-rich stories from various countries for readers young and old, spotlighting quick-witted underdogs who outsmart bullies, trolls, and pompous authority. Themes include the ridicule of folly, greed, and pretension, with clean retellings meant for family reading. Expect nimble heroes, playful contests, and sharp, good-natured satire.  The opening of the collection begins with a preface praising folk humor’s age-old appeal and noting that coarse elements have been removed, then launches into lively tales. First, a resourceful gypsy lad, Kuno, learns in heaven where his troll-abducted father is held, frees him, and also rescues a princess by outwitting trolls in a string of contests, earning marriage and a crown. Next, in a Danish skit, a gullible couple try to make a talking-calf heir; a crafty bell-ringer pockets their money and meat, and the couple later mistake a random merchant, “Stuut,” for their grown “calf” and endow him. A German tale follows: a prince raised by a wildman wins a princess by herding a hundred hares with a magic pipe and, when ordered to “talk a sack full,” fills it by recounting how he made the royal family kiss a donkey’s tail and turn somersaults. Then come Tumpel’s episodes (from Russia), where a lovable fool mangles phrases, misdiagnoses by “deduction,” loses a cow to a prank, and is fleeced by a wily soldier. Finally, in “Prosit!” a herdsman who refuses to bless a king’s sneeze survives beasts and a death-pit, spurns bribes, and secures the princess; the scene cuts off just as the wedding feast prompts another royal sneeze. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76487,908,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76488,520,'"Tykkimiehen muistelmia Karjalan rintamalta" by Aarno Karimo is a war memoir written in the early 20th century. It chronicles a Finnish artilleryman’s experiences on the Karelian front during the civil war, blending gritty combat, makeshift ingenuity, and dry humor. The narrative follows the narrator and his small gun crew as they stumble into gunnery, fight Red and Russian units, and draw vivid portraits of comrades—especially the hapless yet steadfast horseman Jussi. It offers a ground-level view of skirmishes, deprivation, and morale among White forces.  The opening of the memoir states it is not a formal history but a set of frontline recollections, then plunges into the narrator’s scramble to join the artillery, improvised training in Sortavala with a mechanic, and chaotic first test firings. He is rushed to the Antrea sector, where an audacious, roughly plotted shot toward Ora becomes the first artillery salvo on that front, followed by a tense winter night defending the Vuoksi crossings with scant men and almost no firearms. Early actions around Noskua feature a dramatic mishap—a shell stuck in the barrel due to a bad casing—solved by firing it out, and culminate in driving the enemy from stone cowsheds and capturing machine guns. A comic-sympathetic portrait of Jussi (“Sven Dufva”) showcases blunders, loyalty, and rough camaraderie. Life at Ora is depicted as crowded and lice-ridden yet resilient, with constant patrols, gramophone interludes, captured diaries, and grim accounts of Red atrocities, as reinforcements trickle in and green recruits struggle even to stay awake on guard. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76488,908,'Reading ease score: 35.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76488,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76488,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76488,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76488,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76489,520,'"A short history of architecture" by Arthur Lyman Tuckerman is a concise architectural history written in the late 19th century. It sketches the origins, principles, and hallmark features of major building traditions across cultures—moving from prehistoric stoneworks through Egypt, Asia, Greece, Rome, and on to medieval and Renaissance Europe—aimed at general readers and students, with minimal technical jargon.  The beginning of this volume sets its purpose: to give the main facts of architectural development plainly, defining architecture as the union of utility and beauty, rooted in construction and decoration, and outlining the periods to be covered. It then surveys early evidence—Celtic megaliths (menhirs, dolmens, cromlechs like Stonehenge) as the first clear post‑and‑lintel thinking—and turns to Egypt’s tombs and temples (the Gizeh pyramids, the Sphinx, mastabahs and Beni Hassan “proto‑Doric” columns, Theban rock tombs, Karnak’s hypostyle hall, and Nubian rock temples), praising technical mastery while noting a rigid conventionality. Next come India’s stupas, rock‑cut caves, and monolithic temples (Ellora’s Kylas) and pagodas; China’s largely wooden tradition, great bridges, taas towers, and the Great Wall; and Mesopotamia–Persia: Assyrian palaces with winged bulls, early true arches and glazed bricks, staged temple‑towers (ziggurats), and Persepolis with its bull‑headed columns, followed by Sassanian elliptical vaults. The narrative briefly treats the Temple of Jerusalem and Lycian tombs that bridge wood and stone, then shifts to Greece—from Cyclopean Tiryns and Mycenae to the codified Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders and the monuments of the Athenian Acropolis (Propylæa, Parthenon, Erechtheion’s caryatids, Temple of Nike), with notes on theatres, houses, and colonial temples—before opening the section on Etruria and Rome’s adaptation of Greek orders to the arch and vault. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76489,908,'Reading ease score: 53.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76489,674);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76489,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76490,520,'"The sea girl :  A tale of Nantucket in the clipper ship days" by Aspinwall is a historical adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set on pre–Civil War Nantucket, it follows spirited Erica Folger, a captain’s daughter who yearns to go to sea amid clippers and whalers. When her twin cousin Lister disappears in Canton and a powerful Chinese patron enters the picture, the tale points toward a maritime mystery entwined with family loyalty and a young girl’s courage.  The opening of the story introduces Erica atop her aunt’s house in October, boldly cutting her hair short and dreaming of the ocean, while her cousins—twins Lister and Tommy—debate which will ship out as a cabin boy. After Tommy wins the chance, Erica entrusts him with a jade seal from her Chinese “godfather,” Sun Li; but a moonlit rescue on the wharf leaves Tommy with a broken leg, and Lister takes the berth instead. Visits with a genial Quaker captain, preparations for the voyage, and Lister’s departure give way to a wintry Christmas season—and the arrival of two orphaned cousins, sullen Milly and sunny little Barbee, who unsettle the household. Through the winter Milly keeps apart while Barbee charms everyone, and the family anxiously awaits the clipper’s return. Then the captain comes back without Lister: the boy vanished in Canton, and Sun Li—revealed as a powerful official—promises a thorough search and swift justice. Erica and Tommy must help break the news to Lister’s mother, and in that moment Milly shows unexpected tenderness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76490,908,'Reading ease score: 76.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76490,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76490,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76490,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76490,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76491,520,'"Mary Russell Mitford and her surroundings" by Constance Hill is a literary biography written in the early 20th century. It presents a warm, anecdote-rich portrait of the author of Our Village, emphasizing her rural imagination, theatrical ambitions, friendships, and brilliant letters. Drawing on Mitford’s own recollections and contemporary voices, it maps the places, people, and social worlds—English villages, Reading, Lyme Regis, and circles of French émigrés—that shaped her life and writing.  The opening of the book offers a preface praising Mitford’s sunny temperament, keen eye for nature, and charm as dramatist and letter-writer, then moves into her early life: a loving childhood at Alresford with garden, orchard, and the Newfoundland dog Coe; vivid portraits of village characters like Jacob Giles the cobbler and Will Skinner the barber; and rustic scenes such as a blacksmith-escorted wedding. It follows the family to Reading amid her father’s financial imprudence, includes the child’s first dazzled visit to London, and then a richly detailed sojourn at Lyme Regis—its Great House, panelled chamber, gardens and spring, coastal storms, fossil-collecting walks, and even a dining-room ceiling collapse. After a hasty retreat to London within the “rules” and a sudden lottery win on her tenth birthday, the narrative returns to Reading’s markets and mentors (notably Dr. Valpy), before shifting to Mary’s schooling: the Abbey School’s move to Hans Place, her initial shyness, guidance by the beloved Miss Rowden, a comic French disciplinarian episode, and her secret awakening to theatre and Molière. Supper-table sketches of French émigrés animate the social backdrop, while brief letters and scenes show her voracious reading and early Latin, and introduce Mlle Rose, a Bretonne orphan, and “Betsy,” a new pupil guarded from French influences by her blustering father. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76491,908,'Reading ease score: 64.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76491,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76491,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76491,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76492,520,'"L''heréu Noradell : Estudi de família catalana" by Carles Bosch de la Trinxeria is a novel written in the late 19th century. It portrays a landowning Catalan family in the Empordà, focusing on the heir Marsal Noradell as he steers the estate through modernization while navigating community ties and public duty. With costumbrist precision, it evokes village life, vineyards, and parish rhythms to explore generational change, stewardship, and Catalan identity. Central figures include Marsal, his wife Teresa, their daughter Mercè, his mother Catarina, and loyal servants Joan and Margarida.  The opening of the novel follows the elderly servant Joan on a hot market-day return to the Noradell estate, where he learns the patriarch Don Jaume is gravely weak. After a rich description of the estate, church, and household, Don Jaume receives the sacraments, blesses his family with sober counsel on honor and land, and dies, deeply mourned. The narrative then turns to Marsal: a modern, well-trained farmer who improves the property and, pressed by local elites, runs against a government-backed outsider; comic village meetings and a lively campaign end in Marsal’s election and a tearful departure for Madrid. In his absence, Teresa oversees the house with the shy steward Francesc Saqué; walks to the mill and vineyards reveal a bumper harvest amid first signs of phylloxera, visits with the rector anchor the village setting, and brief scenes show Marsal solitary in Madrid, studying the city and taking his seat. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76492,500,'https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%27hereu_Noradell',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76492,908,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76492,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76493,520,'"The new terror" by Gaston Leroux is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a romantic-psychological mystery with occult overtones, in which a devoted young man, Hector, sees his lifelong love for his cousin Cordélia undermined by an enigmatic English painter whose art exerts an uncanny influence. Themes of hypnotic suggestion, auras, and the idea of a “stolen heart” drive the tension as love, jealousy, and belief collide.  The opening of the novel follows Hector from childhood betrothal to Cordélia through his American sojourn and return, where he senses a troubling change in her tied to her art and a mysterious painter. Summoned to the gloomy estate of Vascoeuil, he learns Cordélia and her father have been abroad, sees a shadowy man at Hennequeville, and then hastily marries Cordélia upon their return. At the wedding an unsigned gift arrives: a luminous portrait of Cordélia, clearly by the English painter “Patrick,” which radiates a strange power. That night Cordélia claims she is “as cold as the portrait,” speaks fervently of auras and suggestion, gazes on the painting, and falls into a rigid hypnotic sleep; a local doctor fails, but the specialist Dr. Thurel identifies hypnotic influence and, after blowing on the portrait’s eyes, rouses her. She wakes speaking as if she has shared a moonlit walk and a “golden chamber,” memories that do not match Hector’s reality. The next day she is loving yet altered, and on the second night she is again drawn to the moonlit park, asks Hector to recite Byron as if replaying another man’s words, begs him to save her, and collapses once more into rigidity—leaving Hector terrified that an unseen rival is directing her soul. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76493,908,'Reading ease score: 79.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76494,520,'"25: Being a young man''s candid recollections of his elders and betters" by Beverley Nichols is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It offers spry, often irreverent portraits of prominent figures the author met while young—statesmen, poets, critics, society leaders—told with wit, candor, and an eye for revealing detail. Expect lively travel impressions, literary and political sketches, and a self-aware narrator measuring his youthful enthusiasms against the reputations of his “elders and betters.”  The opening of this memoir follows a 19-year-old Nichols on a British Universities Mission to the United States near the end of the war, mixing shipboard vignettes and first impressions of New York with brisk encounters: a precise, weary Woodrow Wilson; a jovial, crowd-pleasing Taft; and the principled Elihu Root. He contrasts Harvard’s wealth with Britain’s austerity, witnesses premature Chicago Armistice celebrations, and notes the color of American media and millionaires—highlighted by J. P. Morgan handing him a strand of Keats’s hair and a Detroit paper inventing an interview. Back at Oxford, he sketches a cluster of literary greats: Masefield’s generosity and humility, Bridges’s leonine severity, Yeats’s dreamy otherworldliness, and the Sitwells’ sharp modernist mischief. He then captures G. K. Chesterton’s paradox-strewn stance on marriage, the Asquiths’ contrasting temperaments at a Liberal rally, Winston Churchill’s disciplined advice on writing and post-speech anxieties, and Horatio Bottomley’s raw, irresistible oratory. The section closes as he begins an exuberant, waspish portrait of Mrs. Patrick Campbell. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76494,908,'Reading ease score: 79.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76494,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76495,520,'"The glad lady" by Amy Ella Blanchard is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in northern Spain, it follows spirited American Patience “Patty” Blake, her sister Doña Martina, and their Spanish family and friends as they spend a summer in Asturias. Through fiestas, village customs, seaside rambles, and visits to ancient houses, the tale mixes travel color, gentle romance, and cross‑cultural comedy—especially around Patty’s flirtatious banter with Don Tomás and a homesick American engineer, Robert Lisle. It promises a warm, picturesque story of manners, friendship, and light-hearted intrigue rather than high drama.  At the start of the story, a small party gathers in San Sebastián: Dr. Juan Estradas and his American wife Martina, his brother Tomás, and Martina’s sister Patty with her schoolmate Paulette. Patty’s teasing charm and halting Spanish lead Tomás to dub her “the glad lady,” and the group moves on to a mountain town, where a clean but primitive inn, the lively plaza, and village routines set the scene. They visit a peasant weaver and a venerable old house, stroll to a cave-fringed beach, and lunch in style at Don Felipe’s antiquity-filled palacio, leaving with souvenir cups and later bouquets. A reserved traveler reappears as Robert Lisle, an American with Kentucky roots, who bonds with Patty over homesickness. The party then settles into the Estrada family home, and St. John’s Eve and Day bring local traditions: decking streams and the fountain with flowers, villagers bringing gifts—including a lamb from Perdita—and preparations for music and dancing as the community arrives singing a song in honor of Don Juan. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76495,908,'Reading ease score: 81.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76495,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76495,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76495,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76496,520,'"Morgue kadun kauhu" by Edgar Allan Poe is a detective short story written in the mid-19th century. The tale introduces the brilliant amateur sleuth C. Auguste Dupin and his unnamed companion as they apply acute reasoning to a grotesque double murder in Paris. Pioneering the locked-room mystery, it emphasizes observation, logic, and psychological insight over police routine. Expect a tense, cerebral inquiry with a macabre edge.  The opening of the story begins with a Finnish biographical preface on Poe’s life, hardships, and artistic range, highlighting his influence on modern detective fiction. It then shifts to the narrator’s stay in Paris, his meeting with Dupin in a bookshop, their reclusive, nocturnal habits, and a striking display of Dupin’s mind-reading powers. A newspaper details the shocking Rue Morgue killings: a ransacked room, two women dead in inexplicable ways, and witnesses reporting a second, uncanny voice no one can place, leaving the police baffled and a messenger, Lebon, arrested. Dupin criticizes the investigation, secures access to the apartment, and proves a hidden window mechanism and the route of escape via shutters and a gas pipe. Weighing the inhuman strength and the unrecognizable “voice,” he infers a non-human culprit and places a newspaper notice to draw out the likely handler, then waits at home with the narrator to confront the visitor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76496,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Murders_in_the_Rue_Morgue',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76496,908,'Reading ease score: 40.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76497,520,'"Toikan Kaaperin muistelmia" by Konstu Pellikka is a novel written in the late 19th century. It portrays the early life of a poor working-class boy, Kaaperi, growing up in a Finnish town, capturing hardship, small joys, and sharp social contrasts through a child’s candid voice. Expect vivid domestic scenes, humor edged with hunger, and the push-and-pull between thrift and temptation in a tight-knit family.  The opening of the novel follows Kaaperi’s childhood in a cramped back room behind a manor amid foul yards and crowded outbuildings. He revels in new boots, plays with neighbor children, and returns to ruisporridge, even inventing a tale about a rat to cover his own eating; later he breaks a window while throwing at a wagtail and receives a mild whipping, after which his mother promises to sew him proper trousers from an old coat. Through meal prayers, tears, and talk of absent butter and sahti, we see the family strain, a protective mother, and a quick-tempered father. As summer comes, debts press, an uncle arrives with a horse (leading to a scuffle with a neighbor boy), and Kaaperi naively feeds his prized bread to the dog and is scolded. At the start of autumn, market day brings a treasured coin, a modest pastry spree, Pekka’s cigar-selling to fund shoes, Kaaperi’s grand dreams of America and a fine horse, and finally the father’s return with a drunken friend, a brush with a policeman, and tense, contentious hospitality that lays bare poverty, pride, and friction at home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76497,908,'Reading ease score: 60.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76497,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76498,520,'"Evangelical Lutheran hymn-book :  Abridged edition" is a hymnal and liturgical manual written in the early 20th century. It presents the Lutheran order of public worship—texts, rubrics, prayers, creeds, and seasonal propers—alongside a curated selection of classic hymns for congregational singing.  The opening of the hymnal lays out the full Order of Morning Service with Communion, including Confession and Absolution, Introit, Kyrie, Gloria in Excelsis, Collect, Epistle and Gospel, Creed, Sermon, Offertory, a comprehensive General Prayer, the Lord’s Prayer, and the Benediction, followed by the complete Communion rite (seasonal Proper Prefaces, Sanctus, Words of Institution, Agnus Dei, distribution formulas, Nunc Dimittis, Thanksgiving, Benedicamus, and final blessing, with an optional exhortation). It then provides the Orders for Evening Service (Vespers) and Early Service (Matins), specifying versicles, psalms, lessons, canticles (Magnificat, Nunc Dimittis, Te Deum, Benedictus), prayers, and collects. The excerpt concludes by beginning the hymns section, grouped by use—The Beginning of Worship, The Close of Worship, Morning, Evening, and Invitation—offering well-known Lutheran and English-language hymn texts with meters and attributions for congregational use. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76498,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evangelical_Lutheran_Hymn-Book',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76498,908,'Reading ease score: 84.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76498,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76498,677);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76499,520,'"Hawaiian idylls of love and death" by Herbert H. Gowen is a collection of historical legends and tales written in the early 20th century. The work romanticizes episodes from Hawaiian history and myth—especially around Kamehameha I—blending warfare, politics, and the supernatural with intimate stories of lovers and chiefs under the gaze of gods like Pele.  The opening of the book first sketches a vivid, admiring portrait of Kamehameha I—his unification of the islands, strategic patience, and ability to choose capable allies—before launching into linked legends and vignettes. Early stories include the deadly cult of the poison goddess Kalaipahoa and the fatal quest to carve her idol; the theft and recovery of Kiha’s magic war conch; the Puna fisherman whose stand with a splintered paddle leads Kamehameha to protect noncombatants; and the downfall of Oahu’s slandered priest Kaopulupulu as Kahekili seizes the island. Love and divinity entwine as Keala’s fidelity outlasts a cruel priest and even invokes Pele, while a catastrophic eruption at Kilauea signals the fire goddess’s favor toward Kamehameha and foreshadows Keoua’s doom; a poignant episode follows in which Kalanikapule spares two lovers who nearly reach a city of refuge. The section closes as “Sweet Leilehua” begins, with Oahu bracing for Kamehameha’s approaching invasion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76499,908,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76500,520,'"Salapolttajat :  Kolminäytöksinen kansannäytelmä by Emmi Haapanen" is a three‑act folk play written in the early 20th century. Set in a Finnish village, it dramatizes illegal moonshining, a rising temperance movement, and a tug‑of‑war between greed and conscience that entangles a family and their neighbors.  The plot follows Hakola farm’s proud mistress, who pushes her daughter Tyyne to marry the well‑off Mäkelä, while Tyyne loves the honest farmhand Erkki and joins a local drinking strike. Behind the scenes, moonshiners Toukka‑Hennu and Takasuon Junttu, with village layabout Aapeli and the swaggering Jussilan Matti, supply the countryside and help Mäkelä plan wedding liquor. Liisa, Tyynen aunt, uncovers the scheme and works to protect the young couple. A raid on the forest still scatters the bootleggers; officials eventually burst into Hakola’s house and arrest Mäkelä just as he tries to force a betrothal. Faced with public disgrace, the mistress repents of her greed and asks Liisa to reunite the “children.” The play ends with reconciliation in sight and the temperance celebration beckoning as a sign of a cleaner future. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76500,908,'Reading ease score: 56.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76500,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76501,520,'"Ruhtinatar Aurore (»Königsmark»)" by Pierre Benoît is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows the French officer-scholar Raoul Vignerte, who becomes tutor to a German prince at the court of Lautenburg-Detmold on the eve of the Great War and is drawn into perilous palace intrigues around the elusive Grand Duchess Aurore and the calculating Grand Duke Friedrich‑August. Framed by a soldier’s recollection at the front, the story promises a blend of romance, espionage, and political mystery within a haunted German court.  The opening of the novel places a French company in a bleak frontline sector in 1914, where the narrator and Lieutenant Raoul Vignerte settle their men, encounter a dead German from the 182nd Regiment, and the name “Lautenburg” visibly disturbs Vignerte. In a dugout that night, after forced card play and a silent patrol past fresh graves, Vignerte begins his confession. His backstory shifts to 1913 Paris: a stalled academic career, a chance meeting with a well-connected acquaintance who steers him toward a lucrative post tutoring the young Joachim at the Lautenburg-Detmold court, and a cautioned interview with Professor Thierry, who hints at troubling deaths, unusual succession, and the dangerous character of Grand Duke Friedrich‑August. Vignerte then secures the position from the French envoy de Marçais—complete with funds and instructions, even a test in recitation for the poetry-loving Grand Duchess—while Thierry offers sober teaching advice, and departure for the German court becomes imminent. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76501,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koenigsmark_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76501,908,'Reading ease score: 35.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76502,520,'"The lady''s mile :  a novel by M. E. Braddon" is a novel written in the mid-19th century. It is a society romance that pits love and artistic ambition against money and status, following struggling painter Philip Foley and his mercurial enchantress Florence Crawford alongside proud, impoverished Lady Cecil Chudleigh and the magnetic soldier Hector Gordon. Moving between fashionable London and a quiet Hampshire coast, it promises class tension, temptation, and tangled affections.  The opening of the novel paints the glitter and envy of London’s Lady’s Mile, where young artist Philip Foley broods over his infatuation with the celebrated painter William Crawford’s coquettish daughter, Florence, while swapping cynical talk with his novelist friend Sigismund Smythe. We learn Philip’s history—his talent, hard apprenticeship, and precarious living—alongside Florence’s charm and worldliness. The scene then shifts to Lady Cecil, a dignified but destitute earl’s daughter serving as companion to her sharp-tongued aunt, Mrs. MacClaverhouse, whose life revolves around careful economies and social calculation. A restorative seaside stay at Fortinbras brings Cecil unexpected brightness: the return of her aunt’s adored nephew, Captain Hector Gordon, a generous, accomplished officer who instantly wins Cecil’s esteem. Their easy companionship grows through readings, drives, and picnics, while the aunt quietly schemes for a match and finally confronts Cecil, who denies any engagement or promise. The section closes with this tension unresolved, as an outing is about to begin and feelings remain unspoken. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76502,908,'Reading ease score: 65.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76502,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76502,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76502,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76503,520,'"The man who mastered time" by Ray Cummings is a science fiction novel written in the early 20th century. It follows young inventor Loto and his scientist father, Rogers, who develop a way to travel through time after glimpsing a captive girl in a far-future New York. With the aid of a time‑altering aircraft, Loto vows to find and rescue her, setting up a blend of scientific speculation and adventure.  The opening of the novel begins with a circle of friends at a Scientific Club debating the nature of time as Rogers and his son reveal an earlier accident that showed them a vision of the far future—and a girl in peril. Loto unveils a time-plane that can change its time-dimension, departs to seek her, and soon sends back an emergency message cube. In his account he describes accelerating through millennia above New York, witnessing the city’s rise, zenith, and collapse into desolation and cold, then backtracking to the era of the vision. Finding the snowbound homestead, he bungles a nighttime rescue, is captured and briefly blinded by the brutish Toroh’s household, befriends the captive girl Azeela, and plots escape with the help of the resentful Koa—only to be confronted by the elder Bool’s paralyzing weapon as the section closes mid‑struggle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76503,908,'Reading ease score: 84.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76503,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76503,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76503,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76503,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76504,520,'The Minute Boys of South Carolina :  A story of "How we boys aided Marion the… by James Otis is a juvenile historical adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set during the American Revolution in South Carolina, it follows teen narrator Rufus Randolph and his friends—most notably Gabriel Marion, brother of Francis Marion—as they organize a “Minute Boys” company and assist the famed “Swamp Fox” in partisan warfare against British regulars and Tory auxiliaries.  The opening of the story frames the tale as Rufus’s own letters, after a brief historical recap of Charleston’s fall, Clinton’s harsh proclamation, and the rise of partisan leaders like Francis Marion operating from Snow’s Island. In Charleston, Rufus and Gabriel plan to flee and form a boys’ unit, recruit Archie Gordon, and warily include Seth Hastings, who promptly betrays them to redcoats; the boys escape by skiff under fire. They reach Gabriel’s home, secure mounts and the loyal guide Peter, link up en route with the Marshall brothers, and make a hard push through ferries and swamps to Marion’s camp. Reporting an enemy column under Major Gainey, they witness Marion’s surprise night strike at Britain’s Neck, which scatters the foe and yields vital supplies—though Seth slips away—and two prisoners warn of a larger force under Captain Barfield upriver; Marion then tasks the boys to volunteer for a swift, risky reconnaissance, sending them off light and wary. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76504,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76504,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76504,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76504,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76504,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76505,520,'"Australian insects" by Walter W. Froggatt is a scientific textbook written in the early 20th century. It surveys Australia’s insect fauna in a clear, engaging way while retaining scholarly rigor, with emphasis on classification, morphology, distribution, and practical economic entomology. Intended for both general readers and students, it proceeds systematically through major orders, illustrating distinctive Australian species and their habits.  The opening of the volume sets out the aim to marry popular exposition with scientific accuracy, noting the historical difficulty of scattered, obscure descriptions and the rise of field-based, economically useful entomology. It then outlines rules of classification and naming, comments on Australia’s distinctive, climate-shaped fauna and its affinities, and explains insect structure, metamorphosis, respiration, and senses, followed by a brief review of the sparse local fossil record. The systematic accounts begin with Aptera (springtails and silverfish), then Orthoptera, covering earwigs and cockroaches, and giving an extended, illustrated treatment of termites—their castes, royal chamber, mound forms (including “magnetic” north–south mounds), and key genera. Brief sections introduce web-spinners newly recorded from Australia, book lice, and predatory mantids with their egg masses, before turning to phasmids with striking leaf- and stick-mimicry. The opening closes as it enters the short-horned grasshoppers (Acridiidae), describing their anatomy, oviposition, sound-making, and exemplifying the section with the yellow-winged locust. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76505,908,'Reading ease score: 63.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76505,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76505,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76505,670);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76506,520,'"Voyage dans le Soudan occidental (Sénégambie-Niger)" by E. Mage is an exploratory travel account written in the late 19th century. It follows a French naval officer sent by General Faidherbe to chart routes between the Sénégal and Niger rivers, assess navigation and trade prospects, and negotiate with regional powers amid the upheavals surrounding El Hadj Omar. Expect close observations of terrain, rivers, and logistics, paired with encounters across Khasso, Logo, and Natiaga, and a frank view of the risks, finances, and practicalities of colonial-era exploration.  The opening of the work presents a dedication letter from General Faidherbe praising the mission, followed by the author’s preface promising an unembellished, useful record. The introduction sets the political and commercial stakes, reproduces official instructions and a letter to El Hadj Omar, recounts conflicting news from Tombouctou and the Macina, and details the modest funds, trade goods, equipment, and a ten-man African escort alongside Dr. Quintin. The story then moves from Saint‑Louis to Bakel and Médine, where the party organizes pack animals and a light boat, probes the Sénégal above the Félou falls, and battles rapids up to Gouïna. On the road a confrontation at Kotéré is calmed, tensions flare within the escort, and the shifting politics of Khasso, Logo, and Natiaga are sketched, including a cautious visit to Altiney Séga. It closes with a vivid view of the Natiaga landscape and preparations to press toward Bafoulabé and the Niger route. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76506,908,'Reading ease score: 73.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76506,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76506,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76506,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76507,520,'"The exposition of 1851: or, Views of the industry, the science, and the government, of England" by Charles Babbage is a political and economic treatise written in the mid-19th century. Centered on the Great Exhibition, it analyzes how industry, science, and public institutions should be organized and judged, arguing for free exchange, competition, and transparent pricing. The work critiques official management and party politics, proposes practical rules for exhibitions, and ranges from trade theory and scientific organization to the author’s own Calculating Engines.  The opening of the work defends the author’s frank, personal approach in a combative preface, attacks party tactics and governmental small-mindedness, and notes prior advice he gave on the Exhibition’s site and on publishing prices. Babbage then distinguishes universal from general principles, stresses the power of small, repeated causes, and models careful analysis through a simple shovel-and-barrow example. He argues that trade benefits all sides (illustrated by English soles and French uppers), extends the case to multilateral exchange, and links public benefit to secular, practical education. He surveys scientific societies and the British Association’s evolution (including the birth of the Statistical Society), criticizes missed chances to let science lead the Exhibition, and recounts the event’s origin, opposition in fashionable quarters, and the limitations of a commission chaired by a prince. Practical proposals follow: how to price admission, track attendance with turnstiles, improve access, and even move visitors on elevated cars; he defines the Exhibition’s purpose (free interchange), clarifies consumer/producer/middle-man interests, sets boundaries between industrial and fine art (e.g., lace vs. sculpture), assesses site choices, praises Paxton’s Crystal Palace, and begins a sustained case for posting prices—backed by retail anecdotes and the evolution from markets to brokers—to ensure fair competition and help visitors decide what to buy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76507,908,'Reading ease score: 54.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76507,696);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76507,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76507,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76507,695);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76508,520,'"Karu Kamarani :  Runoja by Heikki Välisalmi" is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. The book blends nature lyricism, social critique, and intimate reflection, centering on the Finnish homeland, its seasons and landscapes, the dignity and hardship of ordinary people, the moral wounds of national division, and the consolations and trials of love.  The poems move from hymns to lakes, forests, snow-bright fields, spring and midsummer, and ancestral “sacred groves,” to sharp portraits of society: an opportunistic businessman and a blustering official, a hypocritical judge and a prohibitionist caught drunk, and a Christmas vignette that contrasts warm abundance with bare poverty. There are occasional poems to schools and farmers, tributes to the mother-soil, and a lament for lost unity coupled with a clear plea: no hatred, no revenge, only justice and humaneness. The final section turns inward to love—yearning, fleeting bliss, doubt, heartbreak, and the search for peace—set against luminous nature images. Together the sequence honors the land and common folk, condemns vanity and cruelty, and asks for moral courage tempered by compassion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76508,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76508,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76509,520,'"Tätiväkeä :  Yksinäytöksinen pilakuvaus Pohjanmaalta by Aadolf Luomanen" is a one-act satirical play written in the early 20th century. Set in rural Ostrobothnia, it lampoons small-town domestic life, gossip, and everyday foibles among neighbors.  The action unfolds in a cottage where hardworking Kaisa bustles while her lazy husband Matti causes a mishap with a wall clock and dough, then hides in bed guarding a secret bottle. Neighbors Maija and Sanna drop in; over endless coffee they gossip about children, servants, modern finery, and socialism, while Matti grumbles and snores. Fiija arrives with money and a long, comical letter from her man in America, which Sanna “reads” with borrowed glasses that lack lenses; this sparks talk of deaths, courtships, and the meddling village healer Liisa. Liisa bursts in to trade insults until Kaisa drives her out with a ladle. When the visitors leave, Matti wheedles for more drink, and Kaisa discovers he has drained her medicinal spirits, closing the play on affectionate squabbling and a wry wink at village chatter and small vices. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76509,908,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76509,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76509,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76510,520,'"The slide valve, simply explained by William John Tennant" is a technical engineering guide from the late 19th century, within the Victorian era. Aimed at students and practitioners, it explains how steam-engine slide valves work and how to set and modify them, using clear diagrams and a simple hands-on model to visualize motion. The book focuses on valve motion fundamentals—lap, lead, travel, eccentric advance, compression, and expansion—while also surveying practical valve types and gears used on locomotives and stationary and marine engines.  The book progresses from the plain D-slide valve to a cardboard-disc model that treats the eccentric as a crank, letting readers trace admission, cut-off, release, and compression. It introduces lead and cushioning at dead centres, then shows how outside lap yields expansion and how inside lap or inside lead changes exhaust timing; “free exhaust” is explained by widening ports without changing events. It then covers double-ported valves (and similar forms like the Giddings), multiple-admission designs (such as the Straight Line/Sweet and Woodbury), and piston valves with external or internal admission (including types used on the Ide/Ideal engines). A central section demonstrates how advancing the eccentric, shifting the valve, or adding lap alters timing and duration of events. The link motion is treated as a variable eccentric—contrasting open and crossed rods, full gear, linked up, mid-gear, and back gear—with concise distribution diagrams. Finally, it addresses very early cut-off using separate cut-off gear (Meyer, Buckeye) and the Allen/Trick passage, and closes with a clear explanation of why reversing gears are needed, plus a template to build the instructional model. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76510,908,'Reading ease score: 61.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76510,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76510,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76511,520,'"Ties mikä lie! :  Nelinäytöksinen huvinäytelmä" by Vilho Malinen is a comedic play written in the early 20th century. Set in rural Finland just after the civil war, it follows a Helsinki actor-director, Kallio, invited to coach a youth society’s theatre, and his collision with local ways: the brisk leader Raila, an innkeeping couple, the blundering substitute policeman Matti, and the farmhands Maijastiina and Olli. The comedy springs from culture clash, hospitality and authority tested, and budding romances, as the villagers aim to stage Tukkijoki.  The opening of the play shows an inn where the practical emäntä doubts the value of a city “theatre teacher,” even as Kallio arrives with Raila, is badgered by the zealous Matti, and struggles to get a proper meal and, above all, a room. Plans to rehearse Tukkijoki are set, but attempts to place Kallio with local families falter amid excuses, phone troubles, and prickly hosts. In Alatalo (Act II), Maijastiina resents being cast as Poropirkko and wants the Maija role; Olli is slow-tongued, and the household quietly reserves two rooms for the pair, nudging them toward marriage. When Kallio and Raila come to secure lodging, a comic flare-up ends with Maijastiina and Olli engaged and keeping the rooms, leaving Kallio still unhoused, while a village custom of celebratory singing in the big hall underscores the community’s proud, cautious hospitality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76511,908,'Reading ease score: 56.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76511,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76511,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76512,520,'"Kandaules :  3-näytöksinen näytelmä" by Jalmari Hahl is a play written in the early 20th century. Set in ancient Lydia, it centers on King Kandaules, his veiled Egyptian queen Arsinoë, the victorious general Gyges, and the seer-priest Farnakes, as war, religious rivalry, and the king’s worship of beauty and fortune strain court and city. Public triumph and private desire entwine as ceremony, oracles, and jealousy foreshadow a dangerous collision of love, power, and hubris.  The opening of the play unfolds in Tyche’s temple courtyard by the Aegean: Farnakes prays to the sun god Sanson and warns against foreign gods; Mandane tries to sway Kandaules and is rebuffed; then a messenger announces Gyges has defeated the Myssians. Kandaules exalts Tyche, summons the veiled Arsinoë to crown Gyges, refuses the crowd’s plea to unveil her, and orders relief for storm-stricken citizens, while an oracle tells Gyges that admiration will lift him to the heights of ambition. Factions harden—priest against king, people stirred by demagogues, Mandane spreading doubt. At the start of the second act, in Arsinoë’s chambers, the queen prays to Isis and confides her loneliness to Nitokris; Mandane intrudes with accusations and insults before Filebos warns the king is near. Kandaules arrives, speaks of elevating Gyges, defends his creed of beauty, confesses his past with Mandane and his cruelty to Filebos (whom he now frees), and begins recounting how he sought and “found” Arsinoë—where the excerpt cuts off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76512,908,'Reading ease score: 37.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76513,520,'"Billy Budd : and other prose pieces" by Herman Melville is a collection of prose pieces written in the late 19th century. Anchored by the short nautical novel Billy Budd, Foretopman, it centers on an innocent young sailor drawn into a moral conflict aboard a British warship during the age of mutiny, with the enigmatic master-at-arms John Claggart and the austere Captain Vere shaping his fate. Surrounding sketches and essays deepen Melville’s late-career preoccupations, but the signature tale probes innocence, authority, and latent malevolence at sea.  The opening of the volume frames the title narrative: an editorial note and preface place the story in 1797 amid the Spithead and Nore mutinies, then introduce the archetype of the “Handsome Sailor” before focusing on Billy Budd, a foundling foretopman impressed from the merchantman Rights-of-Man into H.M.S. Indomitable. We meet Captain “Starry” Vere, an intellectual, self-contained commander, and the ship’s master-at-arms, John Claggart, whose covert antipathy toward Billy grows behind a courteous front. Early incidents show Billy’s natural goodness and naiveté—his effect as a peacemaker, his awe at shipboard discipline, and his failure to suspect malice—even as an old sailor (the Dansker) warns him that “Jemmy Legs” is “down on” him. Tension builds through small episodes: a soup-spilling scene with Claggart’s ambiguous compliment, petty harassments, and a secret nighttime approach by an afterguardsman hinting at a seditious “gang” and offering guineas—an overture Billy angrily rejects—while Claggart’s alternating smiles and hostile flashes suggest a deepening, mysterious enmity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76513,908,'Reading ease score: 66.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76513,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76513,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76513,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76513,635);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76514,520,'"Timber line" by Alida Malkus is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set high in the Rockies, it follows Dawn O’Neill, a forest ranger’s daughter, as she defends meadows, wildlife, and water sources against trappers, overgrazing stockmen, and political schemers. Threaded through the conservation battles is a quest for the legendary Silverstake Pine, a boundary blaze tied to Pueblo rights and a rumored silver vein, and a budding alliance with an irrigation engineer who shares her reverence for water.  The opening of the story paints a vivid mountain world: a lobo escapes a trap at the cost of a paw; Dawn discovers and springs other traps, then returns to the cabin where she and her father debate predator control, overstocked ranges, and the disputed reservation boundary marked by the lost “Silverstake” pine. We meet Hinray Dorsay and hear of trespassing goats and careless grazing that scar the meadows. Dawn drives a large herd of goats back into their pasture, locks the gate, and escapes two angry herders by swimming her pony across a cold mountain lake, where she encounters irrigation engineer Garen Shepherd; they quickly bond as she shows him a hidden waterfall and a subterranean stream, and points out the distant giant pine she suspects is the old witness tree. A struggling rancher named James seeks fair range help, which Dawn offers, while a wealthy banker, Perry, and a smooth lobbyist, Gershwin, arrive intent on “opening” the reservation and expanding range. Guiding them, Dawn explains the science of deferred grazing and watershed protection; they witness a government hunt that flushes a lion and the fabled lobo through the trees. The section closes with Gershwin probing for rumors of silver as the political and environmental stakes sharpen. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76514,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76514,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76514,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76514,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76515,520,'"Heimat und Fremde :  Gedichte by Franz S. Gschmeidler" is a collection of lyric poetry written in the early 20th century. The book meditates on home and estrangement, blending landscapes of the Danube region and Lower Austria with reflections on seasons, love, grief, faith, and the moral duties of compassion. Its likely topic is the search for belonging and consolation after upheaval, expressed through nature scenes, intimate prayers, and humane counsel.  The poems move from patriotic and local evocations (Donauland, Mödling, Frauenstein) to quiet city and forest vistas, prayers for a wounded Austria, and richly drawn seasons—snowdrops, Easter bells, summer nights, and harvest calm. Love lyrics dwell on yearning, parting, and remembrance, while war-shadowed pieces lament fallen sons and the sorrow of mothers, and elegies honor a dead father and fellow poets. Other texts offer inward night walks, moments of homesickness in foreign places, and brief philosophical and devotional notes on fate, truth, kindness, and endurance, alongside a gently humorous saint’s tale. Across these varied tones, the book gathers its themes into a steady message: cherish homeland and one another, carry grief with dignity, and let time and love turn life’s wounds into song. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76515,908,'Reading ease score: 85.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76515,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76515,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76516,520,'"Memorie d''un disertore, vol. 1/3: storia d''una famiglia di patriotti" by Guerzoni is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. It presents a sweeping family chronicle centered on the seafarer Battista Santafiori, a figure inspired by Garibaldi’s spirit, whose life intersects with the American, Haitian, and French revolutions. The narrative explores ideals of liberty, abolition, and civic duty while following the fortunes and faults of a family of “patriots.” This first volume focuses on the father’s odyssey and the moral legacy he tries to instill in his children.  The opening of the narrative begins with a preface recounting the book’s composition at Caprera and the loss and reconstruction of parts of the manuscript, then declares Battista Santafiori the living embodiment of humane courage learned at sea. We meet him as a Genoese boy, “Baciccia/Murena,” who becomes a master mariner, reforms his friend Livio (the son of Captain Gordiglia) after rescuing him from a brawl, and builds fortune only to spend it generously. He rejects the slave trade, founds an enlightened plantation in Virginia where he frees and fairly employs Black workers, debates with George Washington, and fights for the American cause as a privateer and blockade runner. Summoned by the Haitian uprising, he saves Livio’s widow Rosalia and her child from the “terror nero,” later marrying her and settling near Nice, where his philanthropy grows as his faith in Napoleonic “glory” wanes; the family expands (including stepson Michele), finances strain, and Battista returns to the sea. The section closes by contrasting Battista’s moral rigor with Michele’s vanity and idleness: sent to school in Genoa, the youth is dazzled by imperial pageantry and falls into the orbit of a calculating seductress—setting the stage for future trouble. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76516,908,'Reading ease score: 48.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76516,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76516,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76516,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76517,520,'"Memorie d''un disertore, vol. 2/3 : storia d''una famiglia di patriotti" by Guerzoni is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the Restoration era, it follows the Santafiori family—especially the young Giorgio—as grief, conscription, a forbidden love, and the stirrings of patriotic conspiracy pit them against local power and a hostile order. The focus is a family saga of Italian patriots where personal loyalties collide with duty and resistance.  The opening of the novel moves from a graveside encounter—where Giorgio and Giusta confess their love and pledge fidelity—into the tense village ritual of conscription, where Giorgio draws the dreaded first number. At home, his mother Rosalia and sister Livia reel from the news, and the family seeks strength before the father’s portrait. A secret nighttime meeting at Giusta’s window turns violent when her domineering father springs a trap: Giorgio is lightly wounded by shot, while Giusta is locked away; only the family’s heroic mastiff “Leone” carries their urgent letters between them. Finding among his late father Battista’s papers a lucid call to join the Carboneria, Giorgio resolves to seek initiation and act for Italy; he leaves under a pretext and the section closes with him on the road toward Turin, troubled but determined. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76517,908,'Reading ease score: 51.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76517,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76517,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76518,520,'"Memorie d''un disertore, vol. 3/3 :  storia d''una famiglia di patriotti" by Guerzoni is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set amid the Piedmontese ferment of revolution, it follows a family of patriots swept into student uprisings, military mutinies, and the court’s intrigues around Carlo Alberto’s hesitation. The narrative centers on ardent young conspirators like Giorgio Santafiori, Ernesto Gastone, and Pietro Muschietti, counterpoised with the calculating Salomone Arena and the magistrate Tacchini. Expect action, political maneuvering, and stark moral choices about loyalty, love, and sacrifice.  The opening of the novel moves from the bloody repression of students in Turin to the first sparks of revolt: Alessandria rises, while Ferrero attempts a daring but understrength sortie near Porta Nuova, saved only when Ernesto shoots down a royal colonel who tries to sway the troops. Inside the Turin Citadel, Gambini and Giorgio seize the initiative by overpowering the commander Des Geneis, hoisting tricolors and rallying the garrison, which pushes the wavering Carlo Alberto to proclaim a constitution after Muschietti confronts him at gunpoint. The scene then shifts to a provincial town where the ruthless Sindaco Salomone Arena begs help for his arrested son and strikes a sordid bargain with Tacchini: his daughter Giusta’s hand in marriage in exchange for acquittal and safe-conduct. Arena intercepts letters, reveals that Giorgio too has been imprisoned, and, under family pressure, Giusta consents in principle while seeking proof. A brief historical interlude sketches the revolution’s weaknesses and the court’s countermoves, before returning to Giorgio on sentry duty overhearing the prince’s midnight soliloquy, torn between revolutionary promises and dynastic loyalty. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76518,908,'Reading ease score: 44.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76518,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76518,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76519,520,'"Hyvästi Porvoo -- morjens Kalkutta!" by Sulo-Weikko Pekkola is a humorous travelogue written in the early 20th century. It follows a Finnish narrator who, with his wife and occasional companions, leaves Porvoo for an open-ended journey toward the East, observing Europe with a sharp, playful eye. The focus is on everyday scenes, bureaucracy, transport, city life, and popular entertainments, delivered with satirical warmth and curiosity. Readers can expect brisk vignettes from capitals and ports, irreverent commentary, and a lively sense of modern travel’s pleasures and absurdities.  The opening of the travelogue shows the narrator seizing a sudden chance to leave Porvoo, rushing through passport and visa chores (and regretting reliance on a travel agency), then plunging into Paris. He skewers the stock exchange, admires the courteous police and fearless traffic, notes cheap taxis and noisy street manners, and discovers that Parisian chic is less demanding than myths suggest (after a comically fraught barber visit and musings on makeup). Sightseeing ranges from Easter services and Invalides to the Unknown Soldier and the Eiffel Tower, plus a dawn immersion in Les Halles, with snapshots of cafés, street displays, and strict midday closures. A foray into nightlife veers from an awkward “Ladies Club” visit to Folies Bergère’s spectacle and Grand Guignol’s gruesome theatrics. A chapter on “modern conveniences” compares public toilets from France to Turkey, capped by a comic train scene during Muslim prayer. In Marseilles he paints a rougher, Mediterranean city with striking street tableaux and funeral customs, then moves on to Monte Carlo’s hushed casino rooms, profiling gambler types, system play, and even alleged dealer tricks. The section closes with plans for a budget-friendly day excursion by car into the Alps from the Riviera. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76519,908,'Reading ease score: 29.9 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76519,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76519,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76520,520,'"Hänen viimeinen tervehdyksensä : Muutamia muistelmia Sherlock Holmesista" by Arthur Conan Doyle is a collection of detective stories written in the early 20th century. The volume follows Sherlock Holmes, with Dr. Watson narrating later cases that range from classic murders to shadowy international intrigue. Expect taut puzzles, crisp deductions, and a tone that edges toward wartime espionage alongside familiar Scotland Yard figures.  The opening of the collection begins with Watson’s note that Holmes is alive, semi-retired by the sea, and briefly reactivated as war looms, then shifts to The Adventure of Wisteria Lodge. Holmes receives a telegram from the respectable John Scott Eccles, who reports that after dining and staying with a charming Spaniard, Aloysius Garcia, he awoke to find the entire household vanished; moments later the police announce Garcia has been found brutally murdered. A cryptic note about “our colors, green and white” points Holmes to a clandestine rendezvous and suggests Eccles was meant to provide an alibi. At Wisteria Lodge they uncover eerie signs of ritual (a shrunken fetish, a slaughtered white cock, blood, burnt bones) and evidence of a gigantic intruder; Inspector Baynes theatrically arrests a hulking mulatto as a ruse. Holmes traces the note to a nearby mansion, High Gable, ruled by the secretive “Henderson” and his feline secretary, and suspects the governess, Miss Burnett, wrote it—only for her to disappear. Before a planned break-in, an ex-servant rescues the drugged governess; Baynes reveals “Henderson” is Don Murillo, the deposed tyrant known as San Pedro’s Tiger, and Miss Burnett begins explaining her personal motive rooted in Murillo’s past crimes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76520,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/His_Last_Bow',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76520,908,'Reading ease score: 43.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76521,520,'"The Hunniwell boys and the platinum mystery" by L. P. Wyman is a juvenile aviation adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on brothers Bill and Gordon Hunniwell and Secret Service agent Steve Rogers as they pursue a century-old clue to a hidden cache of precious metal in the Hawaiian Islands. Flying their experimental electric plane, the Albatross, they combine sleuthing with daring flight and face shadowy opposition around Molokai’s rugged cliffs.  The opening of this novel follows the boys from a Maine fishing trip to a visit by Rogers, who reveals an 1816 attic letter and map hinting at a stash of metal impervious to nitric acid—likely platinum—hidden on Molokai. They agree to search for it, depart in the Albatross, and make a cross-country-and-Pacific flight marked by a thunderstorm, a ghostly mail-plane encounter, and a close pass over a whale before fog forces a blind landing on a beach. After resupplying in Honolulu, they camp near Laau Point, hear an eerie night wail, and begin searching sea-cliffs between tides. Their battery cells are stolen, but they track down a Japanese thief and recover them; later, someone tries to crush them with a rock from a rift above the shore. Deciding it’s unsafe below the cliffs, they reconnoiter from the air and keep guard—until Gordon vanishes from camp. Finding the plane’s motor brushes removed, they fit spares, take off, and finally spot a hidden hut in a dense thicket, where the opening section breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76521,908,'Reading ease score: 91.8 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76522,520,'"Pythagoras and the Delphic mysteries" by Edouard Schuré is an esoteric historical study written in the late 19th century. It blends myth-infused cultural history with philosophical exposition to portray Pythagoras’s life, travels, and teachings alongside the role of Delphi and the structure of the Pythagorean order. The work argues that Greece’s true soul lay in its mysteries and initiations, and presents Pythagoras as the great organizer who sought to reanimate Orphic wisdom through number, harmony, and ethical discipline.  The opening of the book situates sixth‑century Greece amid the decline of Orphic tradition and the corruption of temples, then introduces Pythagoras as the lay successor to Orpheus who would translate esoteric doctrine into public education and civic reform. We follow his youth in Samos under Polycrates, his nocturnal insight that number, unity, and cosmic harmony reconcile earth, heaven, and human liberty, and his resolve to seek initiation in Egypt. The narrative recounts his long Egyptian training, the Persian conquest, and his deportation to Babylon, where he studies Chaldean and Magian arts before returning determined to act in Greece. At Delphi, Schuré describes the site, Apollo’s myth, and a theory of divination grounded in a universal “astral light,” then shows Pythagoras revitalizing the oracle through the priestess Theoclea, whom he prepares as a true seer. The scene shifts to Croton, where he founds an institute that combines education, science, and communal life; outlines strict tests of character and silence; and prescribes a disciplined daily rhythm of study, music, prayer, and friendship. The section closes by introducing the second degree of initiation and the core doctrine: sacred mathematics, where numbers are living principles that ground a rational theogony and the harmony of the kosmos. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76522,908,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76523,520,'"Rich and Humble: A Story for Young People" by Oliver Optic is a children''s novel written in the mid-19th century. It is a moral domestic tale set along the Hudson River, contrasting wealth and character as a compassionate daughter serves the poor while her proud brother falls in with rowdy companions. The story centers on Bertha Grant, her wayward brother Richard, and the waif Noddy Newman, as family fortune and reputation are tested.  The opening of the novel introduces the Grant household at Woodville: Bertha seeks funds for her charitable “mission” to the ragged children of nearby Dunk’s Hollow, while Richard, denied money for a boat-race bet, tries to borrow from her and then secretly steals her two half eagles—an act exposed by the faithful boatman, Ben. We see Bertha’s earnest work in the Glen—teaching, outfitting, and caring for poor children—interrupted when the wild boy Noddy Newman falls from a tree into the river; Bertha nurses him through serious injuries, softening his heart. Meanwhile, Richard rescues a man overboard, pockets fifty dollars under a false name, and quietly revives his plan to race Tom Mullen. Their father fails to come home; a letter hints at looming financial ruin. On race day the Greyhound is found sunk, raised by Ben, and we learn Noddy pulled the plug to stop Richard, who goes anyway. Fanny’s party is snubbed, and a shocking newspaper item about their father makes Bertha faint, leaving the family on the brink of calamity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76523,908,'Reading ease score: 81.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76523,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76523,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76523,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76524,520,'"Rautainen laki :  Näytelmä" by Heikki Välisalmi is a play written in the early 20th century. Set in a home for “fallen women” before the Great War, it probes the hypocrisy of charitable respectability and the exploitation that hides beneath moral reform, focusing on the pious matron Elisabeth Huldstjärna, her well-connected cousin Dr. Bengt Åkerman, and the sheltered ward Eeva amid cynical inmates and a scheming housekeeper. Expect a pointed social drama about power, reputation, and desire colliding under the banner of philanthropy.  The opening of the play presents daily life in the institution: while Anna tries to reform, Karoliina and Dora flirt through the window and arrange secret visits, aided by the duplicitous housekeeper Ankeliina, who wants her cut. Eeva, kept as a “servant” and never allowed out, senses hidden goings-on and fears the house’s secrets, just as a man peers in through an open window. When the matron returns with supporters and a doctor, a supposed “burglar” incident is smoothed over, and the men privately mock the home’s pious façade and the flattering press coverage. Dr. Åkerman stays behind, wins Eeva’s trust, and secures permission to take her into his household. In the next scene at his elegant home, Ankeliina hints Eeva might become more than a servant, while the doctor flatters and stakes a possessive claim as the matron and her ally arrive to bask in a laudatory newspaper article—underscoring the gap between ideal and practice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76524,908,'Reading ease score: 46.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76524,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76525,520,'"Kertomuksia I" by Josefina Wettergrund is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The tales skewer everyday vanity and thrift with warm, witty satire, focusing on middle-class domestic life and romantic illusions. Early standouts feature the penny-pinching Aunt Sofie-Beate and, in a separate tale, the calculating Serafia Mese, her marriage-minded daughter Lukretia, and their kind, capable cousin Frida.  The opening of Kertomuksia I first follows Aunt Sofie-Beate, who vows to “have some fun” on May Day, only to suffer a farcical carriage fiasco and a mortifying Stockholm visit where she overhears her chic hosts mocking her; she confronts them, departs in dignity, and returns home chastened yet kinder to her niece. The next story begins with Serafia plotting a seaside spa campaign to secure a husband for the aging Lukretia, while the good-natured Captain Fabian and industrious Frida keep house. At the spa, the flashy von Stehlen flatters Lukretia with flowers and flowery talk, stoking marriage hopes, as his “majorska” cousin circulates alongside. Meanwhile back home, Fabian leases the farm to the honorable Lieutenant Roos, who quietly falls for Frida and wins her promise, setting up a sharp contrast between sincere affection and glittering pretension. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76525,908,'Reading ease score: 38.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76525,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76525,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76526,520,'"La tragedia della pace : Da Versailles alla Ruhr" by Guglielmo Ferrero is a collection of political essays and historical analysis written in the early 20th century. The work probes the European settlement after the First World War, arguing that the collapse of old monarchies left a vacuum of legitimacy filled by raw force, punitive passions, and contradictory aims. It scrutinizes Versailles through themes such as reparations, disarmament, shifting borders, and the stillborn promise of the League of Nations, contrasting Wilson’s idealism with Clemenceau’s power politics. The book’s likely focus is how a peace made without clear principles risks perpetuating conflict from France to the Ruhr.  The opening of this work sets out Ferrero’s thesis: the war ended in the ruin of Europe’s monarchical order, but the victors, driven by ressentiment and the “chimera of unlimited power,” failed to replace it with sound principles, leaving force to rule where authority had died. In “Le baionette e l’idea” he calls the war “millions of bayonets seeking an idea,” warning that 1848’s promises reappear in distorted form and that peace will be chaos unless institutions and limits are rebuilt. He critiques Clemenceau’s reliance on armaments and alliances over true international guarantees, doubting any lasting quadruplice and urging that the pen must substitute for the sword. Reporting from Paris, he notes the obsession with reparations, the babel of clashing aims, and the peril of disarming and humiliating Germany while inventing buffer states and borders that lack consent. He labels Europe’s statecraft a “new infancy,” contrasts Vienna’s sober legitimacy with Napoleonic improvisation, chides Europeans for expecting endless American “miracles,” and closes this opening stretch by flagging the paradox of the great absentees—Russia and Germany—whose shadow dominates the peace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76526,908,'Reading ease score: 39.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76527,520,'"Kun Kyöpelinkellot ne soivat :  Yksinäytöksinen huvinäytelmä by Aadolf Luomanen" is a one-act comic stage play written in the early 20th century. The work lampoons village matchmaking, spinsterhood, and gender expectations, following a rural household’s lively name-day gathering where courtship schemes collide and resolve.  The story centers on Kaisa, a capable but aging farmer’s daughter, her practical mother, a widower butcher who fancies her, and the simple, pliable bachelor Heikki. The butcher first teases Kaisa about spinsterhood and dangles Heikki as a suitor, while a gaggle of young guests arrives for Kaisa’s name day, flirting, joking, and trying folk divinations about marriage. Heikki shuffles in, awkward and hopeful. The butcher then tricks everyone outside with talk of a wondrous sky to get Kaisa alone, drops the ruse, and proposes sincerely; she accepts. When the others return, the engagement is announced, Heikki blusters in protest, and the evening ends in laughter, song, and a celebratory dance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76527,908,'Reading ease score: 54.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76527,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76527,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76527,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76528,520,'"Miss Primrose" by Agnes Giberne is a domestic novel written in the late 19th century. It follows capable, plain-spoken Pauline Ogilvie as she tries to steady her feckless father’s finances, find respectable work, and face the emotional crosscurrents stirred by the genial Leonard Rudge and the captivating Viola Primrose—while an old tie between her father and “Miss Primrose” complicates matters. Set between a quiet seaside town and London drawing rooms, the tale weighs duty, economy, and pride against the hazards of first impressions and romantic misreadings.  The opening of the novel shows Pauline pressing her indecisive father to write an old friend for advice as their funds dwindle, while a kind fellow-lodger, Leonard Rudge, becomes part of their daily life and Pauline’s quiet hope. After weeks of delay, a postcard summons Pauline to London as a temporary companion, where she meets the sparkling Viola Primrose and learns that the “real” Miss Primrose is Viola’s aunt, Mrs. Palmer—her father’s former fiancée—now convalescent and wealthy. Rudge proves closely connected to them, and Viola’s impending marriage to him is treated as a given. Returning with them to the seaside for a brief visit, a cliffside picnic ends in danger when rockfall strikes; Pauline pushes Viola to safety and is herself injured, leaving the relationships and motives around her charged with new feeling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76528,908,'Reading ease score: 85.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76528,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76528,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76528,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76529,520,'"Vitsa-Matti : Tosiperäinen kertomus" by Heikki Meriläinen is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Matti, the pampered only son of a wealthy farm, whose parents forbid his match with the poor but capable Sohviija, driving him into a wandering life that ends in his becoming the district flogger. Rooted in rural Finnish life and billed as a “true story,” it explores class pride, authority, and the cost of survival. Readers can expect a stark, morally knotty tale where love, shame, and power collide—and where Matti’s bond with Sohviija endures in complicated ways.  The opening centers on Matti’s courtship of Sohviija, his parents’ fierce opposition, and the painful breakup that follows, after which he feigns madness, disappears, and lives for years as an unrecognizable beggar. Returning incognito, he learns the old flogger has died and secures that post, soon administering a brutal public whipping to a notorious thief, which cements his reputation. Years later he regularly brings money and clothes to the now-widowed Sohviija and her children, hinting that they would have been happier together. A failed harvest then traps Sohviija in a predatory “lease” that lets a grasping farmer seize her only cow; she steals it back, Matti secretly funds her, and the scene ends as the farmer arrives with the authorities to reclaim the animal. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76529,908,'Reading ease score: 36.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76529,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76530,520,'"Us, and our donkey" by Amy Le Feuvre is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. Told by lively Grisel Marjoribanks, it follows a clergyman’s spirited children in a rural English village as they scheme to buy a donkey, tumble into scrapes, and absorb gentle Christian lessons. The cast includes practical Denys, dreamy Aylwin, mischievous Lynette, and earnest little Puff, with village life, churchgoing, and neighborly ties shaping their adventures.  The opening of the story introduces the Marjoribanks family’s move to a Lincolnshire rectory after their mother’s death, their new house and garden, and the children’s plan to earn money for a donkey. Each tries a scheme: Lynette makes toffee for the village shop; Grisel secretly rides the carrier’s cart to market to sell flowers and vegetables (earning praise and a quiet rebuke from her father); Denys sells trout after an awkward brush with the squire’s private water; and Aylwin labors in the hayfields. Church life and the knight’s motto “Semper fidelis, semper paratus” frame the moral tone, while Lynette’s impulsiveness leads to a runaway-pony incident that results in new friendships with Clarice and Beatrice at the Hall. A Sunday sermon on “Come, Go, Do” nudges Denys to teach the infants’ class, and little Puff’s earnest prayers are “answered” when Granny sends money—bringing the donkey dream within reach. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76530,908,'Reading ease score: 90.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76530,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76530,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76530,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76531,520,'"Resist not evil" by Clarence Darrow is a political-philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. It contends that states, armies, and courts are instruments of force, that punishment fails to reform or deter, and that non-resistance and humane solidarity offer the only rational path to social health.  The opening of the treatise acknowledges Tolstoy’s influence and sets out a case for non-resistance by tracing the state’s origins to conquest and its modern continuity through armies, police, courts, and prisons. It argues that militarism burdens and brutalizes society, patriotism indoctrinates obedience, and standing armies chiefly exist to control domestic workers rather than repel foreign foes. Civil government is presented as militarism in disguise, enforcing property and class rule; punishment is portrayed as vengeance masquerading as justice, with shifting definitions of crime and arbitrary, harmful penalties. Early chapters attack deterrence—highlighting the brutalizing effect of public executions and the futility of prisons—and reframe crime as a social disease rooted in poverty, environment, and heredity, noting rises in “crime” in winter, hard times, and overcrowded old countries. They conclude that just judgment is impossible, proportional punishment cannot be measured, and state penalties multiply suffering by injuring families and communities, whereas food, opportunity, and kindness would address causes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76531,908,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76531,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76531,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76531,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76531,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76532,520,'"Gay''s year on Sunset Island" by Marguerite Aspinwall is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows fifteen-year-old Gay Annersley and her close-knit adoptive family as they decamp to a Caribbean island owned by her sea-captain uncle, hoping the climate will restore her ailing uncle’s health. Amid house-restoration, island exploration, and family teamwork, they stumble on clues to a legendary pirate hoard linked to Sir Henry Morgan. The story blends coming-of-age, survival, and treasure-hunt mystery with a strong emphasis on character, courage, and resourcefulness.  The opening of the novel finds Gay narrating life in a New England household upended by financial ruin and her Uncle Charles’s breakdown until Uncle Joe arrives with a bold plan: sail south on his schooner, the Myra, to his newly acquired Sunset Island. After a calm voyage, they anchor in a lagoon, reach a long-abandoned planter’s house, and begin repairs; the Myra departs, due to return in two months. A hurricane passes, and wreckage bearing the Myra’s name drifts near the reef, a discovery Gay and Syd quietly fear may mean the ship is lost. The family organizes into indoor and outdoor “teams,” clears paths, plants gardens, and, while sorting an old chest, finds Rosemary Carreau’s 1804 diary describing a copied map to Morgan’s treasure—though the map itself is missing. They set out to circumnavigate the island, camp on the beaches, and take impromptu lessons in stars and shells before Reddy tumbles into a hidden cave complex that could be an ideal pirate cache. They camp in the caves, trade tales of buccaneers, and as night falls Gay wakes to a mysterious sound, leaving the early chapters poised between domestic enterprise and looming adventure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76532,908,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76532,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76532,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76532,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76532,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76533,520,'"Limanora :  the island of progress" by Godfrey Sweven is a utopian speculative novel written in the early 20th century. It presents a hidden island civilization devoted to scientific, ethical, and physiological “progress,” told through a castaway narrator who is examined, rehabilitated, and educated by its inhabitants, including the once-exiled Noola and wise “proparents.”  The opening of this work follows the narrator’s awakening in a radiant crystalline chamber, where his senses are enhanced and he is introduced to Limanora’s ethos: character measured by instruments, creative surgery and medicated atmospheres to refine nature, and an absolute devotion to truth, humility, and progress. He undergoes education by dream-stimulation and “somnology,” learns of weekly character testing, and hears how Noola earned readmission. Detailed chapters describe Limanoran rest, sleep, and flight technologies (light irelium wings, body lightening, electric couches), their preference for solitude over gregarious schooling, and an education designed to prevent atavism and accelerate advancement. Finally, after years of preparation he is deemed ready to visit Fialume, the “valley of memories,” and travels there by winged craft, awed and fearful of the heights as his serene companion guides him toward the island’s great archive and graveyard. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76533,908,'Reading ease score: 60.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76533,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76533,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76534,520,'"Korpi nousee :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Kaarle Halme" is a one-act play written in the early 20th century. Part of a cycle about Finnish progress societies, it is set in a rural community in the late 19th century and centers on the rise of a youth association that channels restless young energy into constructive civic life, while touching on themes of renewal and return.  The action unfolds in Suokorpi’s farmhouse, where the elder Simuna and his daughter Elina discuss local temperance meetings, unruly factory youth, and donating timber for a common meeting house. During a gathering in their great room, a band of youths led by Antti barges in with noise until Lyyli pointedly slaps him, provoking laughter; an unknown man then calms the room and urges the founding of a youth society to give the young meaningful work. He later visits Elina and is revealed as Mikko, her long-lost beloved who disappeared after prison; he stayed away to reform himself and now returns, steady and changed. Their quiet reconciliation coincides with communal resolve: Simuna pledges logs for a hall, the youngsters embrace the new association, and the play closes in a spirit of uplift as the “wilderness” rises. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76534,908,'Reading ease score: 63.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76534,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76535,520,'"Lumihiutale (Little Sister Snow)" by Frances Little is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in Japan, it follows Yuki (“Juki”) from mischievous childhood into young womanhood as she navigates filial duty, poverty, an arranged marriage, and a tender cross‑cultural bond with an American, Richard Merrit. The story explores tradition versus change, everyday domestic ritual, and the pull between Buddhist upbringing and Christian ideas introduced by foreigners.  The opening of this novel paints a vivid spring morning where little Juki plays beneath a plum tree, gets into mischief, and—after a dramatic scuffle over a bird and a cat—meets the American boy Dick Merrit, who stops her from throwing the cat into a canal and wins her trust. A chapter on the Doll Festival introduces her modest home, loving but aging parents, and the origins of her name (born in snow), emphasizing maternal devotion and Buddhist piety. Twelve years later, Yuki returns from a mission school, shouldering household burdens amid growing poverty while social custom prevents her from working; her father arranges her marriage to the well‑placed Saito. A letter arrives from Richard, now grown, asking to lodge with her family, which brings money and joy; Yuki prepares the house and hosts him for two happy months of language lessons and gentle flirtation. In a tender farewell scene—goldfish fed, a butterfly warmed, and a brief talk about God versus Buddha—Richard departs for home, leaving Yuki quietly heart‑sore but resolute. The section closes as she turns to preparations for her first meeting with Saito. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76535,908,'Reading ease score: 40.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76535,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76535,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76536,520,'"The loss of the Swansea: A story of the Florida coast" by W. L. Alden is a seafaring adventure novel for young readers written in the late 19th century. It follows Bristol brothers Jack and Tom, cast onto the Florida coast after a mutiny on the brig Swansea, as they face pirates, wild country, secret caves, and the lure of hidden treasure alongside a weathered ex-pirate ally.  The opening of the story finds the orphaned brothers bound for America on the Swansea, where the drink-weakened Captain Fearing is overthrown by his mate, John March. Set adrift with the captain, the boys reach a Florida inlet, discover an abandoned pirate fort and a glittering cave, and endure a night of rattlesnakes and panthers. When another pirate gang appears and murders Fearing, the boys flee into the cave, are swept by an underground river to a hidden pool, and meet Bill Catchley, a marooned former pirate. With Bill’s help they blast open Blackbeard’s iron gate, wander a labyrinth, and narrowly find daylight again. They then slip upriver, steal back a boat, and push into the Everglades, where Bill reveals a long-buried treasure he once nearly unearthed. As they begin to dig at the marked spot, six armed Indians emerge and seize them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76536,908,'Reading ease score: 82.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76536,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76536,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76536,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76536,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76537,520,'"Plays for small stages" by Mary Aldis is a collection of one-act plays written in the early 20th century. Aimed at intimate, small venues and often performed by amateurs, the pieces blend humor and pathos to probe domestic strain, moral judgment, class and gender expectations, and the solace (and friction) of art. The characters are everyday people—a harried mother, clubwomen, a frightened patient, and conflicted men—drawn into sharp, talk-rich situations that reveal tenderness, folly, and quietly tragic choices.  The opening of the collection sets the stage with a preface celebrating a Lake Forest amateur playhouse and its belief in talk-driven drama, ensemble spontaneity, and fresh, character-centered work. It then presents “Mrs. Pat and the Law,” where Nora O’Flaherty, urged by a visiting nurse to protect herself from her drunken husband, summons a policeman but retracts the charge when she sees Pat’s gentle bond with their crippled son, choosing love and hope over punishment. “The Drama Class of Tankaha, Nevada” follows a club meeting that hosts a bare-bones performance of Giacosa’s “Sacred Ground,” after which a spirited, fractious debate about marriage, secrets, and “Latin” versus “Teutonic” views of passion lays bare generational and moral divides. “Extreme Unction” places a dying prostitute’s terror and lack of remorse before a calm doctor who reframes death as a new discovery, easing her into rest. “The Letter” stages a midnight encounter between a widower and a novelist over a posthumous confession of love, ending with the novelist’s refusal to surrender the letter—an assertion of art’s claim to human truth—before the next piece, “Temperament,” begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76537,908,'Reading ease score: 85.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76537,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76537,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76538,520,'"The Little Review, May, 1917 (Vol. 4, No. 1) by Various" is a literary magazine issue from the early 20th century. It showcases modernist writing and criticism across literature, drama, music, and art. The likely topic is the promotion and discussion of avant-garde aesthetics through editorial polemic, experimental prose and poetry, and cultural commentary.  This issue opens with Ezra Pound’s editorial announcing his role as Foreign Editor and setting out a combative program: defending daring work, scorning mediocrity, questioning pieties about religion and nation, and praising magazines like The Egoist for publishing Joyce, Lewis, and Eliot. T. S. Eliot’s “Eeldrop and Appleplex” (Part I) follows two observers who haunt a quiet street by a police station to catch human beings in their unclassifiable moments, debating labels, intuition, and the mob. John Hall’s “Pierrots,” after Laforgue, is an ironic love monologue. Pound’s “Jodindranath Mawhwor’s Occupation” is a satiric vignette of a perfumed household and Kama Sutra-inflected routines, ending with pragmatic counsel to a son on love and strategy. Wyndham Lewis begins “Imaginary Letters,” a fierce, witty letter from William Bland Burn to his wife, attacking social complacency and the “gentleman-animal.” Morris Ward’s “Prose Coronales” offers brief, lyrical prose meditations on beauty, love, fatigue, and evening. The number closes with announcements (including forthcoming work by Yeats, Joyce, Lewis, and Eliot), a bookshop list, and advertisements. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76538,908,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76538,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76539,520,'"The life-eater by Harold Ward" is a pulp horror short story written in the early 20th century. Set in a Louisiana swamp village, it centers on a mysterious, vitality-sucking wraith and the occult struggle to banish it.  In the village of La Foubelle, people die at night, their bodies shriveled as if drained of life. Doctor Hugo Lamontaine, a hard-drinking physician with deep occult knowledge, deduces that a malignant elemental has been conjured into the world through a human medium. Suspicion falls on the sinister Aaron Kronk, whose hypnotic power and stealthy visits coincide with fresh deaths. To save schoolmaster Noel Pelletier’s beloved Evelyn, Lamontaine uses the ailing dominie as bait, wards the room with iron, and battles the wraith with an iron pentagon, dispersing it at last. Kronk attacks and flees into the swamp, and Lamontaine later uncovers his motive: to terrorize the townsfolk into abandoning their homes so he can profit from draining the swamp. With the entity dispersed and the plot exposed, Evelyn is spared and the plague ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76539,908,'Reading ease score: 75.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76539,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76539,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76539,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76540,520,'"Les Mémoires d''un Parapluie" by comtesse de Elisabeth Galos Houdetot is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. Told as the witty “memoirs” of a sentient umbrella, it follows its journeys from hand to hand, using everyday episodes to explore kindness, vanity, poverty, and integrity. Readers meet a range of owners—from a prudent schoolgirl to a struggling seamstress—while the umbrella observes human foibles with gentle humor and moral clarity.  The opening of the story traces the umbrella’s “birth” in a shop, its education among veteran umbrellas, and its sale (after hard bargaining) to a mother for her daughter Marthe as a New Year’s gift. Loaned up the chain to a bureaucrat, it finds its way back, only for Marthe’s feckless brother’s gambling and theft to push the family into a raffle where the umbrella becomes the prize and is won by the careless Madeleine. Forgotten at a Guignol show and filched backstage by Fifine, it lands in a destitute household, proves too risky to use, and is pawned; at the Mont-de-Piété the umbrella witnesses a gallery of human misfortune, then is auctioned to a secondhand dealer who sells it cheaply to Marie, a devoted young worker buying a fête gift for her mother. Soon the mother falls ill after a humiliating incident at work, and, late at night, Marie bravely sets out alone to fetch a doctor, encountering a boisterous group on the quay just as the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76540,908,'Reading ease score: 66.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76540,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76540,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76540,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76540,638);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76541,520,'"Red aces: Being three cases of Mr. Reeder" by Edgar Wallace is a collection of detective stories written in the early 20th century. It follows the mild, methodical investigator J.G. Reeder as he untangles coolly executed crimes rooted in money, fraud, and murder around London. The first case pivots on a reclusive man’s death, cryptic playing-card clues, and the fraught ties among bank clerk Kenneth McKay, the enigmatic Margot Lynn, and polished clubman Rufus Machfield.  The opening of the book sets a snowy, ominous scene: Kenneth, desperately in love with Margot, grows suspicious after seeing her with an older man and then receives her abrupt farewell. That night a lawyer and a mounted policeman find the battered body of a recluse, Wentford, on a country lane; Reeder arrives, traces the trail to Wentford’s fortified cottage, discovers two aces pinned to the door, evidence of a violent struggle and burnt diaries, and finds Margot inside, terrified and claiming secretarial ties to the dead man. While the policeman later turns up shot dead, Reeder and Inspector Gaylor lie in wait at the cottage and flush an intruder who escapes through a window. The investigation widens to the bank: £600 withdrawn from Wentford’s account by a veiled “lady” is traced via banknotes to Kenneth, who admits only that he jealously followed Margot to the house; Reeder also uncovers French banknotes in a safe and a memo linking the victim to Kenneth’s father, George McKay. Parallel threads reveal Machfield’s discreet gambling rooms and his associate Ena Burslem, whom Reeder pointedly identifies. The section closes with Margot, under Reeder’s quiet pressure, conceding that Kenneth entered the house shortly after she arrived and with Reeder insisting she keep the keys to a safe-deposit box her uncle had entrusted to her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76541,908,'Reading ease score: 83.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76542,520,'Korven raatajat : Kuvaus torpparioloista by Vilho Haanpää is a novel written in the early 20th century. It is a social-realist portrait of Finnish tenant-farmer life, following the determined Aatu and his wife Reeta as they hew a homestead from deep forest while bound to the whims of landlord Puikuliini, with the sharp-eyed suutari Eero and the landlord’s aspiring son Jori sharpening the work’s social conflict. The focus is on dignity, toil, and the pressures of unfair tenancy that test a family’s resolve.  The opening of the novel follows Aatu’s first trek into the remote Luolakaarto to begin “his own work”: felling trees, staking out a house site, and trusting a generous-sounding but unwritten promise from Puikuliini. Shoemaker Eero appears to warn him to secure a proper contract and to see the power imbalance clearly, but Aatu, buoyed by pride and faith in his master, presses on. Aatu and Reeta build a sauna, navetta, and finally a bright new tupa; they name the place Metsola, fill their table with game, and settle into hopeful domestic life. As seasons pass, children are born and fields widen, but the rent in labor grows, Jori’s snobbish “education” collides with Eero’s blunt justice in a fiery debate about freedom and law, and—ten years on—the rising weekly work-levy to the estate stalls their farm and sours their prospects. When an exploitative lease clause is floated, Eero confronts Puikuliini, is sued for “honor,” and punished—signaling how the system moves to break those who speak for the torppari. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76542,908,'Reading ease score: 41.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76542,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76543,520,'"Tuhatvuotinen valtakunta : Nelinäytöksinen näytelmä Upton Sinclairin romaanin…" by Heikki Välisalmi is a four-act play written in the early 20th century. Set in a gaudy pleasure-palace of the third millennium, it satirizes plutocratic power and spiritual emptiness as a scientific super-weapon imperils humanity. The drama centers on engineer Billy Kingdon, the oligarch Lumley-Gotham, his daughter Helena, and the cynical statesman Granville, fusing futuristic spectacle with class struggle and moral choice. Expect a dystopian political allegory where survival, love, and the collapse of social conventions collide.  The opening of the play unfolds in the Huvipalatsi: Billy, undercover as an airship captain, reunites with Helena and urges a clandestine escape, but Granville intercepts them; she prevents Billy from shooting him, and Billy is jailed. Amid a parade of vain guests, the frail magnate Lumley-Gotham frets over security and a new element, “radiumiitti”; when word arrives that its inventor might unleash it, panic erupts. The party stampedes onto a giant aircraft Billy can pilot, abandoning others as an unseen catastrophe wipes out life below. Six hours later the survivors return to a silent, frozen palace dotted with ash, discover there are no servants or systems to rely on, and watch the butler Tuttle turn mutinous while Granville drinks and jeers. Billy scouts the dead city, confirms the emptiness, proclaims a “year one” without property or old marriages, and publicly claims a future with Helena as the scene breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76543,908,'Reading ease score: 46.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76543,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76543,638);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76544,520,'Jérôme 60° latitude nord by Maurice Bedel is a novel written in the early 20th century. It blends romantic comedy with satirical travel writing as a young French dramatist journeys to Norway to stage his play and falls for a forthright Norwegian student, Uni Hansen. Expect a witty clash of ideals and realities—Nordic landscapes and sports, Parisian myths, and theatrical ambitions—filtered through a hero whose imagination outruns the world around him.  The opening of the novel follows Jérôme aboard a steamer from England, where his exuberant imagination turns every sight into legend and where he instantly falls for Uni, a cool, lively astronomy student. In Bergen he’s mobbed by journalists and miscast as a pundit on everything, then on the train to Christiania he finds Uni again and learns her cheerful companion is her brother, Axel. In the capital he becomes a minor celebrity, is whisked by Axel to meet his translator-mother, Clara Krag (a reformist, vegetarian novelist), and the good-humored Minister Krag, then confers with the theatre director about staging his play. A Sunday at Holmenkollen shows the brisk, sportive Norway of his dreams; amid playful skiing and a clumsy compliment that lands awkwardly, Jérôme’s infatuation deepens, even as a boisterous dinner with newspapermen leaves him thinking only of Uni. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76544,908,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76544,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76544,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76544,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76544,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76545,520,'"The sailor boy : or, Jack Somers in the navy" by Oliver Optic is a juvenile adventure novel written in the mid-19th century. It follows Jack Somers, a spirited New England boy whose patriotism and love of the sea draw him into the U.S. Navy during the American Civil War. Readers can expect brisk nautical action, moral lessons, and detailed shipboard routine as a young sailor learns courage, discipline, and duty.  The opening of the novel shows Jack electrified by news of a Union naval victory while his widowed mother worries over losing another son to war. When a naval lieutenant, Bankhead, urgently needs a skilled boatman to reach Fort Warren in a gale, Jack pilots Captain Barney’s yacht through a furious night, later rescuing Bankhead after a near-collision sends him overboard. Grateful, the officer helps win Jack’s mother’s consent; Jack enlists in Boston as an ordinary seaman, receives his kit, and learns the hard edges of discipline on the receiving ship Ohio—including a clash with a bullying mess-cook and a crafty, rule-safe “payback” advised by veteran Tom Longstone. Soon drafted to the sloop-of-war Harrisburg with a few new friends, Jack is assigned stations and roles, and the narrative sketches the ship’s structure and hierarchy as he eagerly awaits getting under way. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76545,908,'Reading ease score: 78.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76545,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76545,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76545,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76545,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76545,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76546,520,'"The Corbin Necklace" by Henry Kitchell Webster is a mystery novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a prominent Midwestern family on the eve of Judith Corbin’s wedding, when an infamous pearl necklace becomes the center of danger, pride, and intrigue. Narrated by a nearby family friend confined with a broken leg, the story watches sharp-eyed young Punch, reluctant bride Judy, their formidable grandmother, their strained mother Victoria, and returning Uncle Alec as a vanished heirloom exposes hidden loyalties and fault lines.  The opening of the novel sets the scene: Punch frets that newspapers have announced the pearls as Judy’s wedding gift, the neighbor-narrator sketches the Corbin dynasty and its iron-willed matriarch, and Judy arrives home ambivalent about her marriage to Bruce Applebury. At The Oaks, Punch discovers the safe once left unlocked; tensions flare between Victoria and Mrs. Corbin over who should have the necklace; Judy hints at her grandmother’s morphine use; and Uncle Alec reappears from the Philippines. On the day the guests arrive, Judy abruptly feigns a sprained ankle after a jolting encounter, and that evening Mrs. Corbin invites her to wear the pearls—but the case proves empty, prompting Victoria to urge secrecy while Alec argues for detectives. The party continues: Judy hides a hastily delivered note in a vase, Punch keeps a nocturnal watch, glimpses a man in torn, pale pajamas heading upstairs, and encounters Miss Digby in the hall, until morning brings Punch a sudden idea about where to look, cutting the opening on a taut cliff. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76546,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76547,520,'"Jibby Jones :  A story of Mississippi River adventure for boys" by Butler is a children’s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a crew of Riverbank boys who befriend the tall, literal, and endearingly odd Jibby Jones, a newcomer with an author father, as they dive into river mischief, fishing contests, and the tantalizing hint of a hidden pirate hoard. It’s a humorous, good‑natured tale of ingenuity, friendship, and life on the Mississippi.  The opening of the novel introduces Birch Island’s stilted cottages and the boys—Tad, Skippy, Wampus, and the narrator—meeting Jibby, whose giant “jib” nose, calm logic, and far‑flung river anecdotes make him unforgettable. After Jibby fixes their balky motor and charms them with his offbeat thinking (like calling his too‑small clothes his “big suit”), the group pranks him with a tall tale about nose‑diving for pearls; Jibby dives anyway and, to everyone’s shock, surfaces with a large pearl that keeps his family on the island. A rainy‑day story from Jibby about the land pirate John A. Murrell—plus the clue “Riverbank” and the lone‑pine signal—spurs them to form a treasure‑hunting club, while a sapling‑catapult fishing stunt flings a carp into a tree, fueling comic debates about animals “climbing.” The boys then compete for Uncle Oscar’s fishing prize: Jibby seems to “smell” fish but actually wins by smart preparation—choosing a proven hole and “scouring” worms per Izaak Walton—before the section closes with the narrator’s dog Rover back home and howling, hinting that nightfall and new trouble lie ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76547,908,'Reading ease score: 89.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76547,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76547,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76547,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76547,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76548,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge is a general-interest periodical written in the early 19th century. It offers an educational miscellany aimed at broadening access to practical information and agreeable reading, blending history, geography, natural history, literature, moral essays, and brief notes for a wide readership.  This issue opens with an editorial championing inexpensive reading for all, followed by a historical sketch of Charing Cross and an illustrated note on its monuments. A substantial article traces the early colonization and growth of Van Diemen’s Land, while shorter pieces cover the antiquity of beer, a witty moral anecdote (“Fair Play”), and brief observations on manners and animal sagacity. Reports from the Zoological Gardens describe a Wapiti shedding its antlers and the fearsome grizzly bear. “The Week” supplies compact notices on Descartes, All-Fools’-Day, and William Harvey. A reflective essay urges diligence in humble stations, and an obituary appreciation of George Crabbe introduces his portrait of the virtuous labourer Isaac Ashford. Further items include a playful sermon on “MALT,” a statistical and social overview of Poland, assorted aphorisms and curiosities, and a postscript affirming the magazine’s mission to diffuse useful knowledge through an affordable weekly format. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76548,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76548,908,'Reading ease score: 61.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76548,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76549,520,'"Jubelklangen : Andliga sånger" by A. L. Skoog and J. A. Hultman is a collection of religious hymns written in the late 19th century. Compiled for Swedish-speaking worshipers, it gathers devotional songs of praise, repentance, trust, and hope centered on Jesus Christ. The focus is congregational worship and personal piety, with recurring images of the pilgrim journey, the Good Shepherd, salvation by grace, and the promise of heaven.  The opening of the collection presents a flowing sequence of short Swedish hymn texts—many with refrains—calling believers to praise God, receive Christ’s salvation, and walk faithfully as pilgrims toward Zion. These early songs celebrate God’s faithfulness, Christ’s nearness and shepherd-care, the Sabbath’s rest, and the cleansing “fountain” of grace, while urging hearers to “come” to Jesus now and leave worldly snares. They interweave tender pieces for children and youth with evangelistic invitations, sanctification aims (“more like Jesus”), and vivid images such as rock, star, and living water. Seasonal notes appear too (angelic songs at Christ’s birth), and the tone moves between joyful assurance and earnest exhortation, always pointing to peace in Christ and the hope of the heavenly home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76549,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76549,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76549,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76549,677);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76550,520,'"The censorship of the Church of Rome and its influence upon the production and… by George Haven Putnam is a historical study written in the early 20th century. It examines how the Roman Catholic Church’s censorship—especially the Index of Prohibited and Expurgated Books and the work of the Inquisition and the Congregation of the Index—shaped what could be written, printed, and circulated. The study also compares Catholic, Protestant, and state censorship and evaluates their impact on the book trade, scholarship, and public opinion.  The opening of the work lays out a detailed two-volume plan, then a preface that defines its scope: cataloging Indexes from the mid-16th century to 1900, noting earlier precedents, summarizing key decrees, describing the Roman Inquisition and the Congregation of the Index, and assessing effects on literary production, distribution, and commerce; it also names principal sources (notably Reusch) and explains the method. The introduction traces censorship from an early church ban on the Acta Pauli, shows how printing magnified the stakes, and explains the creation of the papal Index (1559), the more authoritative Tridentine Index (1564), and later practices (including expurgation). It argues the Index doubles as a historical record of literature, outlines how prohibitions affected the value and circulation of books, and notes inconsistencies among different national and ecclesiastical lists. The narrative sketches contrasting enforcement—Spain’s Inquisition as highly effective, France’s Gallican and royal controls more selective, and Italy’s mixed picture with places like Venice resisting Rome. It also touches on limits placed on vernacular Scripture and recurring condemnations of the Talmud, setting the stage for the detailed chapters that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76550,908,'Reading ease score: 47.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76550,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76550,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76550,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76550,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76551,520,'"Alfred the Great: containing chapters on his life and times" by Alfred Bowker et al. is a historical compendium written in the late 19th century. It assembles essays by prominent scholars, alongside an introduction and a commemorative poem, to portray King Alfred’s life, reign, and legacy across warfare, law, religion, education, culture, and nation-building.  The opening of the volume offers a dedication to the Queen and a laudatory poem casting Alfred as a model of wisdom and virtue, followed by the editor’s preface explaining the millennium commemoration, the aim to spread accessible knowledge, and the call for a national memorial in Winchester. Sir Walter Besant’s introduction sketches the fragmented Anglo-Saxon world and character, traces the Danish invasions, and highlights Alfred’s turnaround from Athelney to Ethandune, his restoration of London, creation of a navy, lawmaking grounded in Christian ethics, revival of schools and monasteries, fostering of foreign ties and trade, and the founding of English prose and national spirit. Frederic Harrison then begins by celebrating Alfred as an exemplar among rulers, recounting his stubborn wars, the Peace of Wedmore, the reorganisation of army and fleet, and the strategic elevation of London. The next chapter opens with Alfred’s early years: pilgrimages to Rome, his father Ethelwulf’s devotional gifts to the Roman churches, the cultural context of the Leonine City, his love of vernacular poetry, and the spark for book-learning kindled—after a childhood steeped in hunting and song—by a treasured illuminated book. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76551,908,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76551,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76551,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76551,664);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76551,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76552,520,'"Notes on the book of Numbers" by Charles Henry Mackintosh is a Christian biblical commentary written in the late 19th century. The work treats Numbers as the “wilderness book,” reading Israel’s journey as a type of the Christian’s walk, worship, and warfare. It emphasizes the plenary inspiration of Scripture, the believer’s assurance of sonship (“pedigree”), allegiance to Christ alone as the true standard, and the Spirit’s sufficiency for church life, while drawing practical lessons from the Levites’ calling and service.  The opening of this commentary begins with publishing notes and a preface that frame Numbers as a divine history of Israel’s wanderings under God’s presence, guided by the cloud, trumpets, and ordered encampments, with special focus on the Levites. The author then introduces Numbers I–II by contrasting the Pentateuch’s themes, defending Scripture’s authority against infidelity and superstition, and urging Christians to know their spiritual “pedigree” and rally under Christ alone, before outlining three arenas of conflict (Romans 7, Galatians 5, Ephesians 6). The next section recasts Israel’s camp as a type of the Church—separated from the world, wholly dependent on God—and argues for the all-sufficiency of Jesus’ name and the Holy Spirit for ministry and worship. It closes by presenting the Levites as workers set apart by grace and cleansed for service, linking their story to self-judgment and the summons, “Who is on the Lord’s side?” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76552,908,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76552,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76553,520,'"Three millions! : or, The way of the world" by Oliver Optic is a novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on Eugene Hungerford, a principled young New Englander suddenly enriched by his uncle’s immense fortune—on the condition that he marry and produce a son named John Hungerford—setting up a conflict between love, duty, and personal integrity. The story moves among Poppleton’s mills and harbor and the nearby islands, following Eugene’s feelings for Mary Kingman, the attentions of an ardent artist, Eliot Buckstone, and the counsel of his friend Dick Birch, as wealth collides with character and community.  The opening of the novel recounts the rise and death of Baltimore magnate John Hungerford and the reading of his elaborate will: generous bequests to friends and charities, and the bulk—three million dollars—held in trust for nephew Eugene until age thirty, to be inherited outright only if he is married and father to a son named John; otherwise the estate is divided among family members and institutions. Eugene, his mother, and sister Julia return to Poppleton dazed by their new status, while Eugene wrestles with the idea of marriage on principle rather than for money, dreams of improving Pine Hill, and sketches modest philanthropic plans to build decent homes for the poor. His college friend Dick Birch arrives, becomes his adviser, and warns him not to let pride or the will’s “price” chill genuine love. Meanwhile, a marine painter, Eliot Buckstone, spots Mary Kingman adrift after losing her oars and swims out, but Eugene and Dick soon tow her safely in, leading to a visit at her family’s weathered house on The Great Bell. There, Eugene’s restraint and stiffness—born of his fear of seeming to buy love—leave Mary unassured, while the charming Buckstone shows keen interest, setting the stage for the social and romantic tensions to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76553,908,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76553,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76553,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76553,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76554,520,'"Le droit à l''avortement by Séverine" is a polemical journalistic essay written in the late 19th century. It challenges the legal and moral order of its time, arguing for women’s right to end a pregnancy and denouncing social hypocrisy around sexuality, motherhood, and the state’s demands for population growth.  The piece opens on the “Toulon scandal,” portraying the prosecution of a local politician as a vengeful, provincial conspiracy by magistrates and naval authorities rather than a quest for justice. From there, it presses a broader case: questioning where abortion “begins,” exposing the law’s inconsistencies, and asserting that before birth there is only the woman, whose life and conscience must prevail. It rebuts demographic alarms by showing how society abandons large families, citing a skilled worker with many children refused housing, and argues that many working women choose abortion out of maternal love to protect the children they already have; others act to shield their families from disgrace or, in the case of sex workers, to survive and to spare future children hardship. Dismissing the stereotype of vain “coquettes,” it notes that most women are driven by necessity, not vanity. The essay portrays abortion as a misfortune rather than a crime, honors the courage of women who risk their health, and concludes that punitive laws and a callous social order create the very conditions that force such decisions—making the law, not women, the true culprit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76554,908,'Reading ease score: 69.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76555,520,'"The Attic theatre : a description of the stage and theatre of the Athenians,…." by A. E. Haigh is a scholarly historical study written in the late 19th century. It examines the physical theatres, staging practices, machinery, festivals, competitions, and personnel of Athenian drama, drawing on inscriptions, archaeological remains, and ancient texts. The work aims to reconstruct how Attic performances actually looked and operated, emphasizing institutional and technical details rather than literary criticism.  The opening of the work sets out its purpose and method, explains the reliance on inscriptions, excavations, and scattered ancient notices, and notes how later revisions incorporate new finds and debates about stage-buildings and performance space. Prefaces review shifting scholarship (especially controversies around the Greek stage), additions of evidence and illustrations, and updated appendices; a contents overview maps chapters on contests, preparation, theatre architecture, scenery and machines, actors, chorus, audience, and inscriptions. The narrative then begins with the religious and civic character of Athenian drama, performed only at Dionysiac festivals and organized as state-run competitions with prizes and juries. It details the City Dionysia—its grand procession, dithyrambic contests by tribe, and tragic program of three poets each presenting three tragedies plus a satyr play (often in linked trilogies/tetralogies, especially under Aeschylus), later shifting to fewer new plays and occasional revivals. Comedy appears later at the City festival (three, then five poets, one play each) and eventually includes revivals chiefly from the New Comedy. The Lenaea is sketched as a smaller, winter, largely Athenian festival where comedy predominates, while Rural Dionysia feature widespread revivals across Attica and the Anthesteria has only minor performative elements. Finally, the selection and voting process for judges is described—carefully randomized and oath-bound, yet sometimes vulnerable to pressure and bribery—before the discussion breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76555,908,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76555,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76555,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76555,674);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76556,520,'"A description of Killarney by Dunn" is a travelogue and topographical account written in the late 18th century. The book portrays the Lakes of Killarney and their surroundings in County Kerry, sketching landscapes, islands, mountains, flora and fauna, echoes, and local lore with a picturesque sensibility.  The narrative maps the two main northern lakes (the Great Lake/Lough Leane and Turk Lake) and the upper southern lake, tracing shores, bays, peninsulas, rivers, and cascades while naming key features such as Glená, Tomies, Mangerton, Turk, the Eagle’s Nest, M’Gilly Cuddy’s Reeks, and the Mucrus peninsula. It lingers on O’Sullivan’s Cascade, the wooded richness of Mucrus and Camillan, and the dramatic echoes at the Eagle’s Nest and along the Great Range; it catalogs islands in detailed clusters—Ross Island, Innisfallen, Brickeen, Dinish, the Oak Islands, and Arbutus Island—describing their vegetation (yew, holly, arbutus) and wildlife (red deer, eagles, grouse). Anecdotes include a learned poor boy, a backsliding hermit at Mucrus Abbey, the legend of O’Donahue, and a hunter’s cottage on a remote islet; there are notes on arbutus fruit, bog formation, and concerns about felling ancient woods. The final section defines Killarney’s character as variety and beauty, recommends vantage points (Yellow Mountain, Aghadoe, Dunloe, Mucrus, Turk, Mangerton, Crom-a-glaun), celebrates shifting light and weather, and defends the region’s abundant rains as the source of its luxuriant scenery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76556,908,'Reading ease score: 57.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76556,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76557,520,'"La Révolution russe :  sa portée mondiale" by graf Leo Tolstoy is a political-philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. It argues that states everywhere are founded on violence, that Western parliamentary reforms only spread moral corruption, and that the Russian Revolution should reject both autocracy and revolutionary coercion. Grounded in Christian ethics and a defense of agrarian life, the work calls for nonviolent noncooperation—refusing taxes, military service, and participation in government—as the only moral and workable path.  The opening of the treatise presents the revolution as a crisis in the people’s relationship to power and asks what Russians must do now. It traces how rulers everywhere arise from violence, degenerate through luxury and war, and are ultimately resisted as public conscience matures; it disputes social‑contract myths and economic determinism. The work contrasts two perilous roads—Eastern submission to despotism and Western democratized domination—then critiques parliaments, mass politics, industrial luxury, and colonial exploitation as a false “civilization.” It claims Russia has unique advantages for a peaceful transformation: a still-agrarian society, a living Christian moral sense, and clear evidence of the West’s dead end. The text explains obedience as a kind of hypnosis born of lost religious conscience, argues that government actually spreads crime, and answers objections about “order” and industry by urging a return to necessary, dignified rural labor. It concludes that one need not predict future institutions; the immediate duty is to refuse obedience to any violent authority, whether governmental or revolutionary. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76557,908,'Reading ease score: 49.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76558,520,'Deutsche Sagen by Jacob Grimm and Wilhelm Grimm is a collection of German legends written in the early 19th century. The volume assembles place-bound folk traditions from German-speaking regions—tales of mountain spirits, Frau Holle, giants, dwarfs, revenants, holy wonders, and hidden treasures—framed by a scholarly concern for faithful transcription of oral lore.  The opening of the collection presents a substantial preface that distinguishes legend from fairy tale, pledges fidelity to sources and wording, defends preserving regional variety, explains the loose, natural arrangement, cites principal sources and informants, and invites further contributions. A long contents list signals the breadth of material. The first legends then showcase the range: miners miraculously sustained underground; a formidable Berggeist who helps, warns, and punishes; multiple Meißner tales of Frau Holle as dispenser of order, fertility, and just rewards, aided by the treue Eckart; the Springwurzel that opens hidden passages; noble or spectral maidens guarding treasure (Boyneburg, Pielberg, Schloß-Jungfrau, the serpent-maiden awaiting release); ominous portents like the “heavy child”; a haunted wine cellar whose gifts prove fatal; and giant lore—from playful boulder games and the Nideck maiden’s lesson about peasant toil to the warrior Einheer, ancient stone “columns,” and the treasure-filled Köterberg. Together these early pieces establish the collection’s blend of local setting, moral tenor, supernatural intervention, and antiquarian framing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76558,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deutsche_Sagen https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deutsche_Sagen',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76558,908,'Reading ease score: 75.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76559,520,'"Terpander; or, Music and the future by Edward J. Dent" is a work of musical criticism and aesthetics written in the early 20th century. It examines how Western music evolved from antiquity to modern times and weighs anxieties about “the music of the future.” The likely topic is the changing language of music—melody, harmony, rhythm, and timbre—how listeners respond to it, and what those changes imply for the art’s future.  The book opens by confronting fear of new music, then defines three ways music appeals (sensuous, emotional, intellectual) and argues for music’s autonomy beyond literary “programs.” It traces the rise of tonality and notation, the Church’s role, the northern invention of harmony, Renaissance secular song, and the acceleration of style through the 17th and 18th centuries toward the symphony and domestic music-making. It portrays the 19th century’s ethical fervor, orchestral spectacle, pianoforte culture, and the spread of clichés and program-music, then critiques commercialization and overproduction. Turning to the present, it rebuts claims that modern music lacks melody or feeling, explaining its break with inherited tonal associations, its abrupt forms, and its experiments in counterpoint, dissonance, rhythm, and tone-color. It urges listeners to rediscover the primary pleasure of sound and accept artistic adventure, notes the impact of mechanical reproduction, and closes by reminding us that every age laments musical decline while the art continually renews itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76559,908,'Reading ease score: 45.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76559,677);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76559,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76560,520,'"Taistelujen mainingeissa :  Runokokoelma entistä j uutta by Severi Nuormaa" is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The book gathers patriotic, historical, and philosophical poems that wrestle with justice, freedom, faith, and the fate of Finland under oppression.  The poems range from portraits of historical and biblical figures to scenes of Finnish life and landscapes. Revolutionary and martyr voices speak through Andreas Hofer, Simson, Giordano Bruno, Lukanus, Sokrates, and Bertran de Born, while national pieces lament tyranny and call for courage, law, and common purpose. Lyrics of seasons, sea, and northern lights frame meditations on God and conscience, social critiques of wealth and power, and rallying cries such as “Nyt valitkaa!” There are tender interludes—Christmas songs, a child beneath a rowan, memories of a humble cottage—and a Budapest diary sketch tied to Petőfi’s legacy. Later poems brood over justice and disillusionment yet keep hope alive, and the book closes with tributes to Topelius and Juhani Aho, binding private feeling to a public plea for a freer, nobler nation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76560,908,'Reading ease score: 57.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76560,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76561,520,'"Torpparit :  3-näytöksinen näytelmä by Urho Wiljo Walakorpi" is a three-act social drama written in the early 20th century. It depicts rural tenant farmers facing eviction under a capricious manor owner, focusing on class injustice, precarious tenancy, and the awakening of collective resolve.  The play follows two tenant families—Matti and Liisa, and Pekka and Anna—whose modest hopes are shattered when the manor owner Kuusela expels Pekka and then, when Matti seeks a formal lease, evicts him too. In the manor scene, the clerk Marttila challenges Kuusela’s cruelty and resigns in protest. Back home, the wives wait anxiously; the men return with the worst news, and despair deepens before turning into quiet defiance as Liisa’s hopeful vision of a just future rekindles their spirits. Marttila arrives to encourage them, framing their suffering within a broader struggle for rights and dignity, and the drama ends on a note of solidarity and emerging social consciousness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76561,908,'Reading ease score: 55.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76561,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76562,520,'"The children of Old Park''s Tavern :  A story of the South Shore" by Humphrey is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. Set along Massachusetts’ South Shore before railroads, it follows spirited city girl Dolly Winslow and her cousin Ned Park through tavern life, salt marsh work, and small-town politics, blending wholesome adventure with regional color and a hint of mystery. Cameos by Daniel Webster and the enigma of a shipwrecked woman called the Little Madam give the tale both historical texture and intrigue.  The opening of the novel introduces Dolly’s visit to Park’s Tavern in Byfield during a bustling Whig convention, where her secret peek into the meeting-house leads to an overnight misadventure and a brave, clever ruse that scares off would‑be robbers. When news arrives that her parents must sail for Europe, Dolly stays on and is cheered by a salt‑haying sojourn to the Marshfield marshes, where Skipper Joe spins sea tales, she learns to swim, and she and Ned roam in their punt, the Daisy. Lost at dusk among the creeks, they are found by Daniel Webster, who hosts them warmly and shows them his library, farm, and famed hospitality. Back home, they befriend the Little Madam—a tiny, gentle amnesiac rescued at sea who lives simply on Hemlock “Island” with her cockatoo—and Dolly is quietly charged with watching over her as local teasing stirs concern. Inspired by reading Ivanhoe, the children dream up a tournament, and as Dolly’s thirteenth birthday dawns, a carefully kept household secret culminates in a joyous surprise. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76562,908,'Reading ease score: 77.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76562,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76562,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76562,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76562,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76562,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76563,520,'"Pelle Erobreren 1: Barndom" by Martin Andersen Nexø is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows the Swedish boy Pelle and his aging father Lasse as they land on Bornholm to find work, entering the harsh hierarchy of a great farm. Through sober, empathetic social realism, it traces Pelle’s childhood amid poverty, toil, and stubborn hope. Expect a coming‑of‑age framed by working‑class struggle and the pull of dignity.  The opening of the novel first states the author’s intent: a four‑volume portrait of the proletarian’s battles, following Pelle from childhood through apprenticeship and awakening. The narrative then shifts to a foggy May Day harbor where locals await a steamer of Swedish laborers; after tense banter and mounting anxiety, the ship arrives. Among the migrants are Lasse Karlsson and his young son Pelle, recently bereaved and nearly broke; spurned by several farmers who won’t hire a pair, Lasse is taken as cowman at the powerful Stengaarden, the boy allowed to follow for food. At the farm, an oppressive atmosphere—its predatory history, superstition, a woman’s constant weeping, and the smooth yet elusive master Kongstrup set against his bitter wife—frames the newcomers’ first days. Brief, vivid scenes show animals, Sunday bustle, chores, and Pelle’s errands and fears, hinting at class tensions while marking the boy’s early stirrings of pride, curiosity, and resolve. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76563,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelle_the_Conqueror_(novel) https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelle_Erobreren_(roman)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76563,908,'Reading ease score: 89.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76563,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76563,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76564,520,'"Onhan pappa sen sallinut" :  Ilveily yhdessä näytöksessä by Moser and L''Arronge is a comedic one-act stage play (a farce) written in the late 19th century. It playfully examines literary vanity, youthful infatuation, and parental permission, as a zeal for poetry and drama sparks a chain of misunderstandings in a respectable household.  Set in Dr. Teitti’s home, the farce follows the flustered writer as he’s besieged by a would‑be dramatist (Aurora), a domineering butcher father (Raninen), and Raninen’s dreamy daughter Aina. When Aina arrives to meet the renowned author, she mistakes Teitti’s nephew Kaarlo for him; the pair exchange flirtatious “lessons” in poetry, emboldened by her refrain that “father has allowed it.” Martta, Teitti’s practical wife, adds to the comic friction, while Raninen storms in to accuse the aging author of leading his daughter astray. Names are mixed up, tempers flare, and Teitti tries to shoo away Aurora and her sprawling “family drama.” In the end, the confusions resolve: Raninen blesses Aina’s match with Kaarlo, grievances are buried, and the curtain falls on a cheerful reconciliation grounded—humorously—on what papa has permitted. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76564,908,'Reading ease score: 54.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76564,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76564,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76564,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76565,520,'"Sydämen ääni : Romaani" by E. Temple Thurston is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Sally Bishop, a young London typist, as she navigates wearisome office life, unsettling attention from a confident stranger, and a safe but loveless proposal from a respectable suitor, with themes of independence, desire, and social respectability in a foggy, modern city.  The opening of the novel sets a moody London evening where Sally, exhausted after overtime at Bonsfield & Co., is watched from the street by Jack Traill, who later follows her onto a tram and presses a bold, teasing conversation that ends with an offensive “ten-pound” bet and Sally’s abrupt exit at Knightsbridge. At her Hammersmith boarding house she spars gently with her practical, skeptical roommate Janet Hallard about work, marriage, and the compromises of the stage. That night the house’s rising banker, Arthur Montagu, takes Sally for a riverside walk and proposes, offering comfort and status; she admits no love, promises only to think, rebuffs his request for a kiss, and later prays, conflicted. The scene then shifts to Traill: after a perfunctory dinner he encounters a worn former acquaintance and brings her to his rooms for talk, where her hopes of a place in his life surface as she begins suggesting how she would “warm” his cold bachelor flat. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76565,908,'Reading ease score: 52.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76565,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76565,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76565,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76566,520,'"Morning and evening hymns for a week by Charlotte Elliott" is a collection of Christian devotional hymns written in the Victorian era. It provides brief, meditative verse for personal worship, arranged for each morning and evening across a week, focusing on prayer, spiritual renewal, perseverance, and preparation for Sabbath rest.  The book moves day by day from Sunday to Saturday, each hymn framed by a Scripture epigraph and voiced as a prayer. Sunday celebrates the “Sun of Righteousness,” asking Christ to shine on the church, the Word, loved ones, and the nations; the evening seeks Sabbath peace and fruit from the day’s worship. Monday’s pieces ask that Sabbath grace perfume the week and invite bold approach to the “throne of grace.” Tuesday urges the soul to run the race heavenward and take courage as salvation draws nearer. Wednesday calls believers to “watch and pray,” then comforts the faint-hearted. Thursday counsels guarding the tongue and rejoices in the quiet strength and peace found in prayer. Friday commends trusting God with past, present, and future and expresses a serene longing to be with Christ. Saturday prepares the heart for the Lord’s Day—laying aside earthly cares, seeking cleansing, and donning Christ’s righteousness—then closes with self-examination, repentance, and a plea for renewing rest. Throughout, the language is lyrical and petitionary, rich with biblical imagery and focused on holiness, consolation, and steady devotion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76566,908,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76566,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76566,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76566,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76567,520,'"Die Masken Erwin Reiners : Roman" by Jakob Wassermann is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a psychological and social study set in Vienna, following the delicate young scientist Manfred Dalcroze, his steadfast beloved Virginia, and his brilliant, wealthy friend Erwin Reiner, whose charisma and restlessness unsettle their bond. The book probes friendship, desire, class, and the deceptive “masks” people wear.  The opening of the novel follows Manfred, ordered to spend two years at sea to heal his lungs, as he secures a berth on a deep-sea expedition and asks his admired friend Erwin to watch over Virginia in his absence. We see Manfred’s earnest love, Virginia’s cautious integrity, and the couple’s modest circumstances, set against Erwin’s opulent, disciplined, and worldlier life. A private confession from Virginia’s mother reveals Virginia’s illegitimate birth, deepening Manfred’s tenderness and anxiety. Before departure, Manfred shows Erwin Virginia’s photograph; Erwin is struck, and promises solemnly to protect her. After a restrained first meeting, Manfred leaves by train, and Erwin tactfully steps in—offering Virginia a ride, visiting regularly, and channeling her faltering art studies into a serious school, then guiding her through galleries and a fashionable exhibition. Virginia is both drawn and unsettled by Erwin’s magnetic presence and blunt cynicism about society and love, while he hints at jealousy over Manfred’s devotion. The excerpt closes with Erwin confiding how Manfred became his true friend and how that bond shapes his stance toward Virginia. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76567,908,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76567,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76567,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76568,520,'"Seinä väliä :  Yksinäytöksinen huvinäytelmä by Martti Wuori" is a one-act comedic play written in the late 19th century. It centers on a noise feud between a young piano student and her studious neighbor that unexpectedly rekindles an old romance. The piece pokes gentle fun at domestic nerves, artistic ambition, and propriety, while turning a thin wall—and what passes through it—into a catalyst for reconciliation.  Maikki Peron practices tirelessly for music studies, to the irritation of the new neighbor, a scholar who complains through the house staff and then blasts a hunting horn in retaliation, frightening Maikki’s anxious aunt, Neiti Filander. Maikki writes a polite appeal, and the neighbor arrives—revealed as Ville Karén (now calling himself Verho), Maikki’s former suitor, determined to finish his exams and secure a post. After awkward apologies, a comic interrogation by the aunt, and a softening song that wins her over, the couple reconcile. With Iida’s bustling help and jokes about opening a door in the wall, peace is restored: the piano will move to an inner room so study and music can coexist, and the evening closes with a cheerful toast and a promise of future happiness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76568,908,'Reading ease score: 63.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76568,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76568,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76568,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76569,520,'"Näkymättömät tulet : Kolminäytöksinen näytelmä" by Eero Alpi is a three-act play written in the early 20th century. Set in a Western Finnish farmhouse about half a century earlier, it follows the grieving widow Heleena, her forceful brother-in-law Valenti, the empathetic Pastor Martti, and Aunt Miili, with the innocent Liisu as a poignant chorus. The drama turns on a drowning that exposes tensions of faith, guilt, and power, as family pressure and unspoken motives begin to surface.  The opening of the play presents a meticulous rural home preparing for Mauri’s funeral: Miili tends to tasks, and Liisu sings hymns and praises the pastor, while the exhausted Heleena struggles with shock. Pastor Martti arrives to offer spiritual counsel, but Valenti’s brusque skepticism and hints of past familiarity with Heleena spark friction; talk shifts to how the household will be run and what the tragedy “means.” In a charged exchange, Martti suggests Mauri had been drinking; Valenti claims Mauri chose a risky shortcut over weak ice, while Heleena denies any drinking and, in anguish, accuses Valenti of deliberate harm before retracting. As the cortege forms, Liisu shares a disturbing dream of Valenti pushing Mauri back under the ice, and a grim omen occurs when Mauri’s furs fall from their peg; Valenti dons them and vows to seize “everything.” At the start of the second act, three days later, Heleena begs Miili to stay, fearing relatives—especially Sipilä—are maneuvering to install Valenti as master and to bind her future, while she recalls how she once rebuffed Valenti’s advances. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76569,908,'Reading ease score: 53.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76569,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76570,520,'"Woodcliff" by Harriet B. McKeever is a novel written in the mid-19th century. It follows Madeline Hamilton, a spirited young heiress whose pride and impulses are challenged by the quiet strength and integrity of Roland Bruce, a poor boy of Scottish stock. Through seaside adventures, schoolroom trials, and domestic clashes, the story contrasts social rank with true nobility, emphasizing self-discipline, compassion, and Christian character.  The opening of the novel introduces Madeline on the beach, where she defends poor children and befriends Roland after he stands up to two fashionable bullies, then later risks himself to stop her runaway horse and refuses payment. At home, her indulgent father and status-conscious aunt foster her willfulness until a strict governess briefly steadies her, only to be undone by Madeline’s spoiled cousin and finally resign. Sent to a local day school, Madeline bristles under firm discipline, but—prodded by Roland—humbles herself, applies to her studies, and publicly exposes a classmate who stole Roland’s exam, leading to his merited promotion. A vivid storm scene frames Roland’s tale of martyred Scottish ancestors, deepening the book’s moral and religious tone. Madeline then visits the modest Bruce cottage, offers practical help, and secures sewing work for Roland’s widowed mother, while her own French governess and pampered lap-dog provide comic contrast. These chapters set the arc of Madeline’s gradual moral schooling—away from vanity and toward courage, kindness, and true refinement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76570,908,'Reading ease score: 76.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76570,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76570,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76570,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76571,520,'"Death of a Hero: A Novel" by Richard Aldington is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows George Winterbourne—from his Victorian-bred upbringing through his service on the Western Front—to dissect the hypocrisies of family, love, and patriotism, and the psychic wreckage of war, as told by a sharp, disillusioned friend-narrator. Expect a mordant anti‑war portrait featuring George, his self-dramatizing mother, ineffectual father, wife Elizabeth, and mistress Fanny, with the narrative doubling as an indictment of a generation’s moral bankruptcy.  The opening of the novel sets its method and mood: in a letter-preface the author declares he will ignore conventional form—a “jazz novel” and a threnody for a lost generation—followed by a note on censorship. The prologue recounts George’s death near the Armistice and, with savage irony, shows how little he is mourned: his father retreats into mawkish Catholic piety and is soon killed in an accident; his mother turns the news into theatrical self‑pity and erotic consolation with a “clean, straight” officer, quarrels over George’s effects, and remarries; his wife receives the telegram while returning home tipsy with a Swedish painter and coolly notifies Fanny; Fanny later moves on and marries. The narrator recalls his frontline friendship with George, charts his nerve collapse after long service, and suggests his death may have been a form of self‑destruction; a spare, military funeral leads to the narrator’s vow to “atone” by telling George’s life. Part One then rewinds to 1890s England, sketching George’s parents: George Augustus, a timid solicitor dominated by his pious mother, and Isabel Hartly, vigorous but vulgar and poor; their marriage, built on pretence and sexual ignorance, begins with a painful wedding night, grinding dependence, and humiliations in the in‑laws’ house. Isabel’s resentment hardens, yet she becomes fiercely devoted to her baby—George—whose birth closes this opening canvas of origins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76571,908,'Reading ease score: 72.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76571,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76571,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76571,635);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76572,520,'"Luchana" by Benito Pérez Galdós is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Part of the Episodios Nacionales, it dramatizes the political convulsions of Spain in the 1830s—especially the La Granja uprising and the liberal push to restore the 1812 Constitution—interwoven with the personal story of the young protagonist Fernando Calpena and those around him. Expect a blend of eyewitness chronicle, irony, and romantic undercurrents.  The opening of the novel unfolds through a sharp, ironic letter from a “señora incógnita” who witnesses the tense hours at La Granja: soldiers murmur, the Himno de Riego rings out, and sargentos press the Regent, María Cristina, to proclaim the Constitution of 1812. Inside a drab archive room, two sargents—timid yet firm—debate the Regent and her courtiers; a naive soldier’s answers add comic pathos, and a minister’s legal quibble about the regency article briefly stalls things before the Regent yields and signs the decree. The scene shifts to Laguardia, where Fernando Calpena—recovering from a wound—reads these letters to a cautious local tertulia, then navigates household life with the pious Navarridas family. A subplot emerges: Demetria’s guardians arrange a grand match with the impeccably virtuous don Rodrigo de Urdaneta Idiáquez, while Fernando, skeptical of such perfection and intent on pursuing his beloved Aura, prepares to depart. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76572,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luchana_(episodio_nacional)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76572,908,'Reading ease score: 61.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76572,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76572,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76573,520,'"Chinese recipes by Nellie C. Wong" is a cookbook written in the early 20th century. It presents practical Chinese home cooking for everyday tables, emphasizing staple seasonings like soy bean sauce and ginger and featuring distinctive vegetables such as mushrooms, water chestnuts, and bamboo shoots.  The book opens with notes on ingredients, oils, and portions, then gives clear, brief recipes organized by dish type. It covers tea and soups, the proper way to cook rice and reuse leftovers, and many seafood preparations (notably several shrimp dishes, plus sweet-and-sour fish, fish balls, and pineapple fish). Meat and vegetable dishes include broiled pork, bean sprouts with pork, spring rolls, cabbage rolls, meat custard, chicken with corn or walnuts, stuffed mushrooms, tomato-and-egg (Wang Shih), and string beans. There is a noodle centerpiece in almond chow mein and two desserts—sweet potato balls and a “precious pudding” of rice, barley, and candied fruits—finished with a simple lemon syrup. Techniques center on quick stir-frying, steaming, and deep-frying, with frequent use of soy sauce, ginger, and cornstarch for light gravies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76573,908,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76573,678);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76573,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76574,520,'"Giovanni Tolu, vol. 1/2: Storia d''un bandito sardo narrata da lui medesimo" by Enrico Costa is a narrative non-fiction work written in the late 19th century. It presents the life of the famed Sardinian bandit Giovanni Tolu as a first-person confession, framed by the author-editor’s historical notes on banditry in Logudoro. The focus is on Tolu’s character, codes of honor, and the social forces shaping outlawry, with intersections to other notorious figures of Sardinia’s bandit tradition.  The opening of the volume recounts how an elderly visitor reveals himself as Tolu to the author, asking to correct myths by dictating a candid, unvarnished life story; Costa agrees and vows to publish the confession faithfully, adding only brief notes. Before Tolu speaks, Costa inserts a sweeping historical sketch of banditry—from biblical and European precedents to centuries of Sardinian cases—showing how feudal protections, state brutality, romantic legend, and political upheavals fostered and distorted the phenomenon. He contrasts the older “honor-bound” bandit with later criminal forms, positioning Tolu as the last representative of the former. The narrative then begins with Tolu’s childhood in Florinas: a large, once-comfortable family fallen on hard times, a strict and upright father, a twin brother, and years as a church sacristan before turning to hard agricultural work. After his father’s death he shoulders family responsibilities, labors across the Sassari countryside, buys a prized black horse, and keeps aloof from taverns and flirtations—sketching a diligent, self-controlled youth before any crime enters his life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76574,908,'Reading ease score: 44.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76574,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76574,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76574,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76575,520,'"Giovanni Tolu, vol. 2/2 : Storia d''un bandito sardo narrata da lui medesimo" by Enrico Costa is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. It presents the first‑person life story of the Sardinian bandit Giovanni Tolu, blending personal confession, local history, and the social world of Logudoro and the Nurra. Expect a portrait of honor, vendetta, survival, and temptation as Tolu navigates alliances with shepherds, feuds with rivals, and brushes with the law. The central figure is Tolu himself, a shrewd, reflective outlaw whose code and contradictions drive the narrative.  The opening of this excerpt finds Tolu insisting on sobriety and caution after separating from his wife, warning that wine and women ruin bandits, yet slipping into a years‑long affair with the gleaner Maddalena, which he abruptly ends when she begs him to elope—after which she abandons her family with another man. He then exposes and eliminates a would‑be informant, the shepherd Salvatore Moro, luring him out by night and shooting him after concluding Moro was working with the carabinieri for bounty. Shifting to the Nurra, Tolu describes its terrain, shelters, and customs; his reading (Reali di Francia, Bible), and his role as a folk healer with striking anecdotes. A vivid episode follows a dream that prefigures a shipwreck at the Carazza Grande: amid storms he salvages wax bricks, confronts Alghero boats, and watches pistachios end up feeding pigs. The narrative next sketches the powerful Antonio Careddu—politics, vendettas, hired killers, and a tangled payment dispute—before recounting Careddu’s later murder over pasture rights and the skewed justice that follows. Finally Tolu reflects on the danger of love for outlaws, recounting discreet affairs with widows and wives, and the section closes as a young, grieving widow in an ovile becomes captivated by his stories. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76575,908,'Reading ease score: 45.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76575,635);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76576,520,'"The Belle of Bowling Green" by Amelia E. Barr is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in New York City around the War of 1812, it blends historical romance and society drama as the admired Sapphira Bloommaert navigates love, family pride, and the mounting stir of war. Her growing attachment to Leonard Murray clashes with her father’s cool disapproval, while the social whirl around the Battery and Bowling Green frames questions of duty, heritage, and choice of heart.  The opening of the novel celebrates Bowling Green as the city’s historic heart, then settles into the Bloommaert household: the dignified judge, his spirited wife Carlita, formidable grandmother, steadfast son Christopher, pretty cousin Annette, and “belle” Sapphira. War fever rises—flags fly, drums beat, the judge delivers an impromptu speech that rouses volunteers, and Leonard emerges as a gallant young leader. Domestic and social scenes follow: a lively tea, moonlit Battery promenade, and a cotillion in which Sapphira and Leonard’s mutual feeling quietly crystallizes, provoking the judge’s private resentment. Tensions flare when Leonard asks the women to choose his company’s uniform and when he sends Sapphira white roses; sharp words, Annette’s jealous mischief, and then a tender reconciliation at home mark the family’s strain. Soon news comes that Leonard’s company will man harbor defenses, and, as evening falls, Sapphira waits composedly for the inevitable farewell visit—the moment the excerpt reaches as his steps approach. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76576,908,'Reading ease score: 80.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76576,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76576,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76576,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76576,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76577,520,'Maailman toinen puoli: Kuvauksia by Heikki Välisalmi is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The pieces trace human dignity and cruelty amid civil strife, poverty, madness, and exile, moving from Finland’s wartime fractures to Siberia’s bleak horizons. Themes of freedom, fate, and compassion recur as ordinary people—wounded youths, a disabled clerk, a fugitive madwoman, and exiles—are tested by history and by one another.  The opening of the collection moves through stark vignettes: in a burning northern city’s hospital two young enemies, shot on opposite sides of the civil war, quietly discover they both fought for “freedom” and fade in fever. A frail, childlike clerk named Matti briefly wields petty authority during unrest, then slips into obscurity, finally writing passes for the dead before joining them. A madwoman flees a poorhouse to the forest’s safety while the village trembles behind locked doors. Ieri, a deformed ward whose weekly joy is scrounged tobacco, dies when a drunk playfully pours pipe dregs into his open mouth—an act tinged with bitter kinship. Fate’s loops tighten as a Finn robbed in Warsaw later shares a Siberian sled with the same cross‑dressing thief, now an exile heading toward an asylum, and a “Siberian Christmas” sets political prisoners beside a peasant whose lost father was a Finn. The section closes as news of revolution finally reaches the steppe, and two far‑off exiles erupt in disbelieving joy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76577,908,'Reading ease score: 40.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76577,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76578,520,'"Voittamaton :  Kertomus suomalaisesta sisusta olympialaisissa kisoissa" by Kojo is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in post–civil war Finland, it follows farm boy Matti Lassila, whose relentless self-training and quiet sisu carry him from local meets toward the national stage and an Olympic marathon dream. The story pits genuine perseverance and humility against vanity and excuses, while a shy romance with a nurse humanizes his drive.  The opening of the novel traces Matti’s rise from a hardworking peasant’s son—stealing minutes to train, running hills at dawn, throwing between chores—despite family skepticism and village gossip. After serving as a brave scout in the civil war, he returns to competition, finds motivation in a boastful shopkeeper, and at a midsummer meet beats him on the track, sensing his own potential. Persuading his father to let him go to Helsinki by literally outrunning the family horse, he travels with two young athletes; at Eläintarha he places modestly in the pentathlon but surges to second in the 10,000 meters behind Nurmi, prompting Pihkala to hail him as a natural marathoner. A tentative bond with a wartime nurse flickers—letters fail, a chance reunion follows—while he doubles down on rigorous winter training through slush and snow, drawing amused reactions from townsfolk and police. As spring arrives, he launches a solo 40‑kilometer test run feeling light and strong, and the excerpt breaks off mid-race. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76578,908,'Reading ease score: 42.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76578,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76578,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76579,520,'"The strange transfiguration of Hannah Stubbs" by Florence Marryat is a novel written in the late 19th century. It blends domestic realism with occult intrigue, following an exiled Italian aristocrat in London, a pragmatic young doctor, and a country maid whose uncanny mediumship draws them into séances and supernatural tests. Expect a tale of jealousy, guilt, and the thirst for answers beyond the veil, with the title character’s latent powers promising unsettling transformations.  The opening of the novel introduces Signor Ricardo, a reserved Italian language teacher in a Soho lodging-house, secretly using a black-draped room for occult experiments. Visited by Dr. Karl Steinberg, he confesses he is Paolo, Marchese di Sorrento, who killed his wife Leonora in a jealous rage and now longs to learn if she was guilty or innocent by summoning her spirit. After an unnerving séance that spooks Steinberg, the men discover their landlady’s new maid, Hannah Stubbs, an ingenuous village girl whose presence triggers poltergeist-like activity. They strike a deal to “treat” her, hold sittings, and hear a controlling voice called James speak through her, promising guidance and hinting that Leonora is near; soon Hannah herself reports seeing a veiled, black-eyed lady on the stairs and by her bed, setting the stage for deeper—and riskier—experiments. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76579,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76580,520,'"Unter Kopfjägern in Central-Celebes : Ethnologische Streifzüge in Südost- und…" by Albert Grubauer is an ethnographic travelogue written in the early 20th century. The work follows a European researcher through Southeast and Central Celebes (Sulawesi) as he documents headhunting peoples, notably Tobela and Toradja, along with their landscapes, material culture, and interactions with Dutch colonial administration. Expect meticulous notes on journeys, crafts, rituals, and daily life framed by vivid descriptions of ports, rivers, and mountain routes.  The opening of the account sets out the author’s aims, gratitude to the Dutch authorities, and the scale of his collecting, then launches into Part I: travel from Singapore to Makassar and along the Gulf of Boni to Paloppo and Malili. It paints Makassar’s busy harbor, harsh climate, and museum; shows the permit process and hiring of a local assistant; and records stops at Saleyer (with a prized bronze drum), Balangnipa, and Pálima. After a festive interlude in Malili (royal visits, a regatta, Boni dancers, and mock combats), the narrative turns inland: from Malili through Ussu, Kawáta, and Laro-Ehá to the Matanna region, detailing tough trails, leeches, burning grasslands, and carrier troubles. Along the way it sketches people and practices—Bugis traders, Toradja migrants, Tobela clothing and tools, Tambe-É customs and a feud legend with the Tolampu, beliefs about crocodiles as ancestor souls, and the incessant funeral gonging in Matanna. The arrival at Lake Matanna brings striking landscape description and close-ups of lake-dwellers’ stilt houses, boats, rice mortars, brasswork, pottery, weapons (and colonial disarmament), and everyday crops and tobacco chewing—ending mid-discussion of language use. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76580,908,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76580,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76580,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76581,520,'"Barbara von Tisenhusen :  Liivinmaalainen tarina" by Aino Kallas is a historical novella written in the early 20th century. Cast as a 16th-century Livonian chronicle, it follows the noblewoman Barbara von Tisenhusen and the lower-born clerk Franz Bonnius, whose forbidden love collides with rigid class laws and family honor. Told by a pastor-narrator, it probes passion, piety, and the cruelty of patriarchal pride in a sumptuous yet decaying society.  The opening of the novella adopts the voice of Pastor Matthaeus Jeremias Friesner, who recounts Barbara’s upbringing as an orphan at Rõngu amid Livonia’s opulence and moral laxity. A humiliating moment in Tallinn—after she is paraded in a gold dress—sparks her rejection of vanity and sympathy for the local peasantry; she even condemns a brutal bear-baiting. When the new clerk Franz Bonnius arrives, an immediate attachment forms, and Barbara resolves to marry him despite the Pärnu pact forbidding such misalliances. Her family refuses consent, the lovers flee toward Riga, and Barbara is captured near Sigulda and tried by her kinsmen, where she defiantly acknowledges her bond and shields Franz. The excerpt closes with her brothers taking her onto the frozen Lake Võrtsjärv as an ice hole is cut, while the pastor, forced to attend, prepares her for death. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76581,908,'Reading ease score: 34.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76581,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76581,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76581,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76582,520,'"Taiston tiellä : Runoja vaino- ja kumousvuosilta" by Larin-Kyösti is a poetry collection written in the early 20th century. It gathers fervent patriotic, spiritual, and elegiac poems born of Finland’s independence struggle and civil turmoil, interweaving frontline scenes with mythic, biblical, and historical allusions. Voices shift from sentries, soldiers, and mothers to martyrs and personified forces, denouncing oppression and betrayal while exalting honor, work, and a free homeland.  The opening of the collection moves from rallying calls to arms and sentry alarms into a New Year’s lament for a blighted time, expands to a revolutionary courtroom vignette from France to frame tyranny, and then turns to Christmas prayers and an Easter hunter’s vision that swells into an apocalyptic battle between light and darkness. It conjures historical guilt and haunting (the Viapori betrayal), satirizes a slumbering empire in a “Chinese dream,” and alternates battlefield dirges with metaphysical dialogues and invectives against treachery. Hymns to home and labor stand beside biblical and Kalevala retellings (Simson and Delila, Kyllikki) and a defiant Prometheus, followed by omens and patriotic songs proclaiming a free Finland. The sequence also denounces leaders seen as betrayers, sketches the cruelty of civil conflict, mixes march rhythms with a burlesque of a swaggering invader, and closes this opening stretch by pivoting from war reportage and martyrdom to the resolve of rebuilding and the calm of midsummer. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76582,908,'Reading ease score: 57.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76582,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76583,520,'"The public library" by Ernest A. Baker is a treatise on library history, policy, and practice written in the early 20th century. It examines the rise and role of public libraries in Britain, urging their integration with adult education and their coordination into a national system. Drawing on history and current practice, it defines what a complete public library service should include—from lending and reference work to children’s, rural, and technical services—and how governance and funding must adapt.  The opening of the book sets a reformist tone: after noting that recent legislation averted financial collapse but left bigger aims unmet, it calls for urban and rural libraries to be coordinated into an economic, national service and criticizes how little sociologists have valued libraries. It then sketches the movement from post-Waterloo self-help and Mechanics’ Institutes through Ewart’s permissive Acts, highlighting Edward Edwards’s advocacy, the early focus on museums, debates over taxation and “dangerous” knowledge, uneven municipal adoption, philanthropy (notably Carnegie), and the crippling penny-rate limit. The narrative shows how consolidating Acts and Scottish provisions improved matters but left libraries isolated from schools and other educational agencies until the Adult Education Committee pressed for change; a later Act removed the rate cap and enabled county-based rural systems, yet deeper structural reforms were deferred. Turning to practice, the book contrasts progressive with perfunctory services, then defines the lending library’s purpose, the shift to open access, the value of branches over mere delivery points, and liberal borrowing to encourage serious study amid chronic shortages of books. It outlines the reference library’s tools and functions, notes local special collections, and treats newspapers and periodicals as “current history,” best curated alongside ready-reference works to foster informed citizenship. It advocates study rooms, small class spaces, and, crucially, robust children’s departments modeled on the best American examples, illustrated by the Croydon junior library’s lectures, storytelling, classification training, and close work with schools. The section closes by introducing the need for commercial and industrial library services, signaling a detailed treatment to follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76583,908,'Reading ease score: 43.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76583,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76583,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76584,520,'Lefty o’ the Blue Stockings by Burt L. Standish is a sports novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Lefty Locke, a rising southpaw in a tight pennant race, as he navigates pressure on the mound, a jealous veteran pitcher, a meddling new manager, and a tangle of affections that complicates his focus. The tone blends on-field strategy with clubhouse politics and hints of romance.  The opening of the book plunges into a high-stakes game where starter Pete Grist unravels, owner Collier orders manager Carson to summon Lefty, and the cool young pitcher stops a Specters rally, duels sluggers, and then drives in the winning run. In the glow of victory Lefty meets Collier’s savvy daughter, Virginia, just as his true sweetheart, Janet Harting, arrives in town—leading to a painful misunderstanding when Janet spots Lefty escorting Virginia at the theater. Shut out from explaining, Lefty stews while Carson repeatedly uses him as a late-inning savior, fueling clubhouse friction and Grist’s resentment; Virginia notices the misuse and nudges her father. After a tense train-row with Carson, Lefty starts against the Specters, pitching in jittery bursts of brilliance and carelessness, leaving his teammates—and the reader—uneasy about his state of mind as the road trip begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76584,908,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76584,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76584,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76584,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76584,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76585,520,'Just his luck by Oliver Optic is a novel written in the late 19th century. It’s a brisk juvenile adventure about an honest orphan, Wade Brooks, thrown in with two reckless boys, Lon Trustleton and Matt Swikes, whose mischief spirals from stolen peaches to arson and a desperate flight. With small-town tensions, river escapades, and a hunt underway, the story tests courage and integrity as Wade seeks to clear his name and claim his independence.  The opening of the novel follows Wade refusing to steal peaches with Lon and Matt, getting unjustly struck by them, then mistakenly whipped by farmer Garlick—who soon apologizes and gives him peaches when the truth emerges. At home, Wade is abused, denied supper, and while sneaking bread at night he witnesses Matt steal his father’s hidden cash; soon after, Garlick’s barn is set ablaze. Wade slips off to sleep in an old creek sail-boat, while Lon and Matt—who had plotted revenge and escape—burn the barn with a slow-match and board the same boat at midnight, unaware Wade is in the cuddy. By dawn, Wade stands up to the bully, secretly recovers the hidden wallet to return it, and steers for a village to find food. As Lon attacks him again, the boys’ fathers arrive at the boat, setting the stage for a reckoning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76585,908,'Reading ease score: 88.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76585,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76585,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76585,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76585,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76586,520,'"Negro myths from the Georgia coast, told in the vernacular" by Jr. Charles C. Jones is a collection of folktales written in the late 19th century. It presents animal fables, origin stories, and plantation anecdotes from the Georgia and Carolina sea islands, told in the local dialect. Recurring trickster figures like Buh Rabbit spar with stronger beasts such as Buh Wolf and Buh Alligatur, while brief human sketches and closing morals highlight themes of cunning, promise-keeping, and comeuppance.  The opening of the collection frames the work with a dedication and a prefatory note distinguishing coastal dialect and lore from the better-known Middle Georgia tales, followed by a contents list and a swift run of short myths. Early stories explain animal habits (why the alligator hugs the riverbank, why buzzard shuns crabs, why owl preys on roosters at night) and showcase Buh Rabbit’s tricks (escaping the Tar Baby in the brier patch, scaring beasts with a horn, eating a neighbor’s butter under the guise of baptisms). Other episodes caution against arrogance or bad faith, as in the poor man who betrays a helpful snake and loses everything, two “friends” tested by a bear, a monkey who learns what “trouble” is, and a prank on an old man by a master posing as Death. Throughout, the tales are brief, lively, and vernacular-driven, often ending with plainspoken morals voiced by named narrators. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76586,908,'Reading ease score: 87.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76587,520,'"Les Touâreg du nord" by Henri Duveyrier is a scientific monograph of exploration, geography, and ethnography written in the mid-19th century. It presents the results of an extended Saharan journey, uniting rigorous mapping, physical geography, and natural history with a detailed portrait of the northern Tuareg—especially the Azdjer and Ahaggar confederations—their society, routes, and commerce. Intended for scholars and policymakers, it reads as both a field report and a foundational study of the central Sahara.  The opening of the work sets out the expedition’s aims (to fill geographic gaps, create relations with Saharan peoples, and prepare for deeper ventures south), acknowledges official and scholarly support, and routes the reader through the author’s stages from Algeria and Tunisia to Tripolitania, Ghadames, Rhât, and Mourzouk, amid illnesses and logistical challenges. The foreword distinguishes environmental hardships from human and political obstacles, explains the cartographic method (itineraries, astronomical positions, and controlled indigenous reports), and announces a separate volume on commerce. The introduction outlines the plan: four books covering the physical setting, natural productions, commercial and religious centers, and a full ethnography of the northern Tuareg, plus an appendix comparing ancient and modern geography and clear rules for transcribing Arabic and Berber terms. A formal report from the Paris Geographical Society summarizes the scientific results, highlights the mapped network of routes, the vast Igharghar valley and the mountainous Ahaggar, and praises the map’s value, noting the Sahara’s varied relief and hydrology. A glossary of indigenous terms, errata, and additions precede Book One, which begins by defining the four Tuareg confederations, their broad limits, and then opens the physical geography with a focus on dune zones and the elevated plateaus. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76587,908,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76587,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76587,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76587,670);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57931,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Duveyrier');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76588,520,'"Der deutsche Roman seit Goethe : Skizzen und Streiflichter" by Martin Schian is a collection of literary lectures written in the early 20th century. The work surveys the development of the German novel from Goethe onward, combining clear, accessible criticism with selective case studies rather than exhaustive cataloging. It aims to help educated readers judge and choose significant novels, tracing major currents such as Romanticism, the historical and realist traditions, Naturalism, and problem-oriented fiction.  The opening of the work sets its scope and purpose in a preface: these are adapted public lectures meant to present literary history lucidly to a wider audience, focusing only on the German novel since Goethe and favoring depth over completeness. The first chapter argues for the cultural weight of the novel, defines it as a complex narrative that furnishes a world-picture rooted in reality, and distinguishes modes (historical, contemporary, psychological, naturalistic, and tendentious), while warning against trivial or purely sensational fiction. A concise prehistory follows, from medieval verse narratives and Volksbücher through Reformation-era bourgeois tales, Grimmelshausen’s seventeenth-century satire, and the Enlightenment, critiquing Wieland’s Agathon as philosophically didactic yet dramatically thin, before declaring Goethe the true founder of the modern German novel. The subsequent, substantial analysis reads Werther as a gripping interior study of passion, Wilhelm Meister as a sprawling but idea-rich Bildungsroman, and The Elective Affinities as a model of unified idea and action centered on marriage; Wanderjahre is deemed a chain of novellas rather than a novel. The section closes by framing Goethe’s enduring importance—psychological depth, timely sensibility, and the fusion of thought with plot—and then pivots to Romantic prose: Novalis’s visionary, allegorical Heinrich von Ofterdingen, Eichendorff’s lyrical fairy-tale-like Taugenichts, Schlegel’s fragmentary and sensual Lucinde, and E. T. A. Hoffmann’s darkly fantastic, uncanny tales, exemplified by The Devil’s Elixir. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76588,908,'Reading ease score: 70.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76589,520,'"Mitä kylvää sitä niittää : Kertomus" by Heikki Meriläinen is a novel written in the early 20th century. It portrays the ordeal of a Finnish orphan boy, Hemmo, as he navigates famine, poor relief, and the harsh huutolaisuus system that auctions the poor to the lowest bidder. The story contrasts cruelty and exploitation with rare acts of compassion, suggesting a moral arc in keeping with the title’s proverb. Readers can expect a stark social tale anchored in rural life, with Hemmo at its center.  The opening follows a rural community through prolonged crop failures and the grim establishment of overcrowded poorhouses where adulterated bread, filth, and disease lead to mass deaths. Hemmo arrives with his parents at the Lepakko poorhouse; both parents die, and he alone survives, clinging to his mother’s coffin in a heartbreaking burial scene. When the poorhouses are dissolved, paupers are auctioned out; Hemmo is taken by the brutal Sipo, bullied by his sons, and deprived of food, clothing, and the alms he later gathers while briefly fleeing to kinder relatives and the city—only to be forced back and robbed of his gifts. Gradually a kinder neighbor, the Ratula household, intervenes; after a year Hemmo is brought to them, fed, clothed, and taught to read, and the section closes with his quick-witted rescue of the parson’s toddler from drowning—hinting at the boy’s resilience and the novel’s moral compass. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76589,908,'Reading ease score: 49.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76589,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76589,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76590,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is an illustrated popular periodical from the early 19th century. This issue offers a miscellany of short, accessible pieces spanning archaeology, geography, natural history, art and literature, and practical counsel for everyday life. Its likely topic is the diffusion of useful knowledge to general readers for education and moral improvement.  The contents range widely. A centerpiece article vividly explains Pompeii’s burial by ash and pumice, contrasting it with lava-entombed Herculaneum, and recounts observations after a recent eruption. A substantial survey of Van Diemen’s Land describes its districts, towns, landscape, climate, resources, agriculture, trade, and land policies. A fable-like “Lost Camel” story showcases reasoning from signs, paired with a note on simultaneous invention. Natural history sketches cover the dormouse’s partial winter torpor and the swallow’s nest-building. “The Week” offers brief cultural notes on Raphael, Grotius, and Canning. A lively guide invites working families to visit the British Museum freely and courteously. Poetry by George Wither appears with commentary on imagination as solace, followed by practical pieces on choosing a healthy, well-situated cottage, modest furnishing, and frugality and savings; closing anecdotes add curious facts and moral hints. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76590,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76590,908,'Reading ease score: 62.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76590,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76590,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76590,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76591,520,'The Deserted Wife by Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte Southworth is a novel written in the mid-19th century. It opens with a sharp critique of hasty marriage and easy divorce, then moves into a domestic drama set in Maryland’s fading planter world. The story centers on gentle, steadfast Sophie Churchill, who raises her orphaned niece on a decayed estate, becomes close to the kindly Emily May, and draws the troubling attention of the new minister, John Huss Withers. Themes of duty, temptation, and social judgment loom, hinting at betrayal and peril ahead.  The opening of the novel combines an essay on the causes of unhappy marriages—defective moral and physical education, lax social discipline, and premature unions—with a vivid setup: the ruin of Heath Hall and the proud, impoverished Churchill line. Sophie, left to rear little Hagar with only an ancient servant, finds solace in the friendship of Rev. Senex May and his young wife, Emily; plans to unite their households end abruptly with the old pastor’s sudden death. His successor, the austere John Huss Withers, exerts an icy, magnetic presence that unsettles Sophie, culminating in a tense ride to church and a mysterious apparition in the woods. Back at Heath Hall, a desperate fugitive slave invades the house; Withers subdues him, but Sophie secretly frees the man and aids his escape. Withers then begins visiting Sophie, probing her mind and loneliness with cool, philosophical talk of “ennui” and purpose, while his personal interest becomes unmistakable. The section closes with his intimate address and Sophie’s wary withdrawal, foretelling conflict. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76591,908,'Reading ease score: 76.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76591,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76591,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76592,520,'Murder mask by Edgar Daniel Kramer is a short piece of weird/crime fiction written in the late 1930s. Centered on a cursed medieval-style silk mask, it explores how jealousy, inheritance, and a high-society masquerade collide when the wearer is fated to kill the one they love before dawn.  Antonio Colletti, embittered after Nita Tosca marries his cousin Tomaso Romani, returns with the ominous mask and a warning verse, secretly prepared to use poison if needed. At their all-night masque, Romani dons the mask and grows violently jealous, dragging Nita into an alcove where, in a frenzy, he stabs her. Horrified, he forces Colletti to put on the mask; compelled to slay whom he loves best—himself—Colletti drinks his own poison and dies. Romani then kills himself beside Nita as the revelry ends and morning breaks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76592,908,'Reading ease score: 86.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76593,520,'"Das Leben und die Meinungen von Herrn Tristram Shandy" by Laurence Sterne is a novel written in the mid-18th century. It playfully satirizes reason, manners, and learned systems through a narrator who tells his life and opinions as a chain of witty digressions. The story orbits Tristram, his opinionated father Walter Shandy, his gentle Uncle Toby, and the parson Yorick, turning household talk and mishaps into comic reflections on identity, chance, and folly.  The opening of this edition begins with editorial notes and a biographical sketch of the author—“the poor Yorick”—covering his clerical career, troubled marriage, celebrated flirtations, travels, lonely death, and the character of this German translation. The story proper then launches with Tristram proclaiming his unlucky birth and directly addressing the reader, promising both life and opinions in his own errant way. Early chapters wander to the village midwife and, especially, to the parson Yorick—his kindness, quick wit, war on affected seriousness, the enemies he makes, and his death from grief, marked by “Ach, armer Yorick.” The narrative then turns to Walter Shandy’s theory that names shape destiny (his horror of “Tristram”), and introduces Uncle Toby, a modest, war-wounded soul whose delicacy clashes with Walter’s eagerness to air a family scandal, all as the noise upstairs signals that Tristram’s birth is imminent. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76593,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Life_and_Opinions_of_Tristram_Shandy,_Gentleman https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leben_und_Ansichten_von_Tristram_Shandy,_Gentleman',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76593,908,'Reading ease score: 75.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76593,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76593,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76593,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76593,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76594,520,'"The Art of Music, Vol. 06 (of 14): Choral and Church Music" by Rossetter G. Cole is a comprehensive historical survey and reference work written in the early 20th century. It examines the development of choral and church music from early Christian chant through medieval polyphony, the mass, motet, madrigal, cantata, and oratorio, up to then-contemporary practice, also treating the organ and national traditions. The focus is on musical forms, styles, and trends rather than on biographical portraiture, with analyses and classifications of a wide array of works.  The opening of the volume sets its method and scope: Cole’s preface explains the need to condense a vast field, privileging the evolution of forms and styles over personalities, and acknowledging omissions (such as hymnology and some contemporaneous church topics) due to space. Frank Damrosch’s introduction frames choral singing as a communal art rooted in both church liturgy and folk-song, outlines its functions and types, and argues for disciplined leadership, singer training, and civic choruses as cultural assets. The first chapter then sketches early church music: the shift from congregational to clerical chant, the rise of the liturgical-musical alliance, and the codification and teaching of Gregorian chant (with Ambrose’s and Gregory’s roles), including sequences and tropes and their later pruning. It traces technical advances—neumes to staff notation, organum to discant to counterpoint (Hucbald, Guido, Franco)—and shows how secular song (troubadours, trouvères, minnesingers, mastersingers) and early forms like the chanson, frottola, and madrigal emerged alongside, highlighted by the English round “Sumer is icumen in.” The narrative closes by emphasizing how folk impulse and freedom in melody gradually influenced art-music, just as the next chapter turns to the polyphonic Netherland tradition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76594,908,'Reading ease score: 56.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76594,677);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58506,'de.wikipedia','https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosetter_Gleason_Cole');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76595,520,'"Plato''s American Republic" by Douglas Woodruff is a satirical philosophical dialogue written in the early 20th century. It stages Socrates and his companions debating the character of modern America, skewering its faith in Progress, mass opinion, industrialism, and reformist zeal. In playful Platonic fashion, the work takes aim at cars and commerce, Prohibition, politics, and higher education to question what a good life and a good polity require.  The opening of the work places Socrates in “Athens, 1925,” where Agathon, Lysis, and Phaelon draw him into a comic-earnest inquiry sparked by an American who wants to buy the Parthenon. Agathon recounts Socrates’ disappointing U.S. lecture tour (outshone by Xantippe’s praise of American womanhood), which leads Socrates to dissect America’s worship of numbers and “Progress,” its fixation on automobiles, and the absurdities of parking and speed. The dialogue then widens to the Civil War’s legacy, the dominance of a vast federal machine, and the alliance of manufacturers and preachers (amplified by propaganda) in shaping “public opinion,” treated as a tyrant of souls. Socrates lampoons Prohibition as the product of that alliance (with women’s support), notes how it corrodes respect for law, and contrasts Ellis Island’s “undesirables” with the Statue of Liberty marooned offshore. Turning to education, he attacks swollen universities, fundraising presidents, timid faculties, and the cult of “facts” and experts, and proposes training a female guardian class to reorient the nation’s aims. The section closes with a plan to limit numbers and dethrone the card‑index mentality, all delivered in witty, Plato-like exchanges that mix satire with serious critique. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76595,908,'Reading ease score: 74.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76595,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76595,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76595,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76595,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76595,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76596,520,'"Winifred: or, An English maiden in the seventeenth century" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the mid-19th century. Set amid the aftermath of the Monmouth Rebellion, it follows steadfast young Winifred Evans, a Somerset yeoman’s granddaughter whose compassion draws her into danger when she shelters a hunted gentleman tied to the loyalist gentry. Expect a morally earnest, historically colored tale of courage, conscience, family duty, and quiet female heroism.  The opening of the story frames the brutal reprisals after Sedgemoor, then narrows to Master Evans’s farmhouse, where practical, devout Magdalen, bold-but-fearful Jack, and resolute Winifred live quietly. Sent with provisions to a poor widow, Jack flees the eerie Black Copse; Winifred goes instead, discovers a wounded fugitive hidden among ancient standing stones, and secretly revives him. After a hushed family council, she guides him at midnight to Dame Sprat’s remote cottage, where the widow recognizes him as “Master Arthur.” The next day, using a still-room errand to gain privacy, Winifred delivers his watch and a packet to Lady Peckham, who reveals the man is her beloved brother Arthur Carew; they decide he is safer concealed with Dame Sprat than at the Hall. Mrs. Alwright quietly supplies food and clothing, while tension spikes as Winifred meets the dreaded Colonel Kirke on the avenue, and at home Jack returns with a broken arm from forbidden bird-nesting. The section closes with chores, a letter and books from Winifred’s seafaring father, and the fugitive’s peril still unresolved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76596,908,'Reading ease score: 78.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76596,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76596,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76596,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76597,520,'"In the hollow of His hand" by Hesba Stretton is a novel written in the late 19th century. It depicts the persecution of Russia’s Stundists, focusing on a devout farming family whose faith in non-resistance is tested when authorities seize their children to raise in the Orthodox Church. Centered on Alexis Ivanoff, his son Michael, and his little daughter Velia—with the compassionate yet constrained priest Father Cyril set against the harsh Starosta Okhrim—the story explores conscience, courage, and the suffering of women and children under coercive religion.  The opening of the novel frames its theme with a preface on Christians persecuting Christians, then follows Michael as he accompanies his dying mother in Scotland and returns to his father on the Ukrainian steppe amid rising hostility. Alexis instructs him in Stundist non-resistance; they visit secret allies in Kovylsk and face cold village ostracism at home. Michael starts a small school for Stundist children, leads a hidden forest meeting, and is discovered—gently—by Father Cyril, who soon receives a devastating order to remove all Stundist children (ages two to ten) into Orthodox homes. Despite his pleas at the consistory, the order stands; Velia and little Clava are placed tenderly with the priest, while other families are torn apart. The men are then arrested, winter closes in, and Michael and Sergius shoulder farm work before secretly sledging to Kovylsk for news, where they learn of unyielding interrogations and debate the icon question with the fearful sympathizer Markovin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76597,908,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76597,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76597,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76597,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76598,520,'"Ricordi di gioventù : Cose vedute o sapute - 1847-1860" by Visconti Venosta is a historical memoir written in the early 20th century. It recounts the author’s youth and political awakening in Lombardy and the Valtellina across the turbulent years surrounding the Italian Risorgimento, blending family portraits with eyewitness glimpses of civic life and nationalist agitation. Expect intimate domestic scenes, sketches of notable figures, and a ground-level view of how a generation moved from quiet habits to open resistance. The focus is on lived experience rather than formal history, filtered through an educated Milanese eye.  The opening of the memoir frames the narrative as a letter to the author’s nephews, explaining his aim to record what he saw and heard from his childhood through the upheavals that led toward Italian unification. He evokes a loving household, profiling his learned, just father and his witty, compassionate mother, then looks back to a great‑grandfather tied to the Grisons’ rule and a grandfather active in late‑18th‑century Valtellina politics. He contrasts pre‑1848 Milanese customs with later changes, recalls the cholera scare and the imperial procession, and relates early school years at the Boselli institute (the ingenious maestro Pozzi, severe discipline, and classmates), alongside his father’s at‑home lessons and summers in Valtellina. He sketches his father’s scholarly work, contacts with Cesare Correnti and other patriots, and a coach accident that harmed his father’s eyesight, followed by a stormy excursion that preceded his father’s sudden death in 1846. The narrative then shifts to 1847: studies at home, Correnti’s mentorship, fervent readings (Berchet foremost, with Mazzini’s ideas circulating), the rising civic mood marked by Confalonieri’s funeral, a vast women‑led charity drive, and enthusiasm for Pius IX. It culminates in the fraught arrival of Archbishop Romilli, mass illuminations, clashes with police, and the first casualties in Milan, alongside provincial campaigning—hymns, slogans on walls—in the Valtellina; local companions, including the Vienna‑schooled Giacomo Merizzi, enter the scene as the agitation spreads. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76598,908,'Reading ease score: 38.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76598,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76598,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76598,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76599,520,'"My past and thoughts, vol 1 (of 6): The memoirs of Alexander Herzen" by Herzen is a memoir written in the mid-19th century. It recounts the author’s early life and intellectual formation against the backdrop of imperial Russia, from the Napoleonic invasion through the stirrings of political dissent, with keen portraits of family life, serfdom, and the culture that shaped him.  The opening of the memoir moves from a nurse’s vivid tale of the 1812 fire of Moscow to the author’s father securing protection from Marshal Mortier, meeting Napoleon, and carrying a letter to Alexander—followed by the family’s rough journey amid French prisoners and the father’s detention by Arakcheyev. Returning to a ruined Moscow, the child grows up on war stories and visiting generals, while the household’s fortunes shift: the beloved valet Calot, a grotesque elder uncle, a quarrelsome division of estates, and the contrast between a sociable Senator-uncle and a severe, reclusive father. Herzen’s loneliness and education take center stage—odd tutors (including an actor who dies of charcoal fumes), two hapless German minders, and a voracious, unsupervised reading life—alongside sharp, compassionate sketches of the servants’ hall and the degradations of serfdom (from the proud footman Bakay to the ruined cook Alexey and the tragic secretary Tolotchanov). He reflects on patriotism, rejects a military path, and describes tepid formal religion versus his genuine attachment to the Gospels. This opening culminates with the shock of Alexander I’s death and the uncertainty that foreshadows the December crisis. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76599,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Past_and_Thoughts',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76599,908,'Reading ease score: 66.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76599,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76599,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76599,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76600,520,'"The story of Keedon Bluffs" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the Great Smoky Mountains, it explores mountain life shaped by Civil War aftershocks, local lore, and a looming mystery tied to the towering Keedon Bluffs. The story centers on young Ike Guyther, his blind artilleryman uncle Abner, the dubious drifter Jerry Binwell, and Jerry’s captivating little daughter Rosamond, as suspicion and old grievances collide with whispers of hidden treasure and haunted caves.  The opening of the novel paints the bluffs and river in vivid detail, introduces the found cannonball, and sketches Ike’s restless courage alongside Abner’s proud, wounded stoicism. A stranger with an ox-cart—Jerry—arrives with his irresistible child, Rosamond, spinning eerie “witch” warnings about the cliff hollows that Ike suspects are meant to scare him off. When a storm forces Jerry into Ike’s home, Abner recognizes him and angrily accuses him of wartime treachery, but the family’s hospitality—and Rosamond’s charm—prevail for the night. As Rosamond wins every heart, Jerry recounts his hard luck, while privately showing a mocking edge. In town, gossip swirls: an old-timer suggests Abner wants to reach the cliff cavities not for a cannonball but for Squire Torbett’s rumored hidden money that Ab and Jerry once helped conceal. Community disapproval hardens around Jerry, who tries to regain face by showing off his agility at the store, even as taunts about desertion dog him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76600,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76600,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76600,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76601,520,'The flowering plants of South Africa; vol. 5 by I. B. Pole Evans is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. It showcases hand-coloured plates with formal botanical descriptions of indigenous South African flora, emphasizing diagnostic features, distribution, and ecology. Aimed at botanists and horticulturists, it blends taxonomy with cultivation notes, local names, and occasional remarks on usefulness or toxicity.  The opening of this volume begins with a dedication to the Cape mountain plant collector Thomas Pearson Stokoe and proceeds through a sequence of plates with notes on each species. The featured plants span many families and habitats, including succulents (Cotyledon, Crassula), multiple Aloes (from the economic A. ferox to the showy A. marlothii and A. rupestris), irids (Gladiolus, Lachenalia), orchids (Lissochilus/Eulophia), proteas (Leucadendron, Protea), and distinctive outliers like the parasitic Sarcophyte sanguinea and the epiphyte Dermatobotrys. Each entry pairs an illustration with concise history and identification, habitats and ranges, collector attributions, and practical or economic notes—such as aloes extraction, livestock poisoning, cultivation ease, and notable rediscoveries—giving a compact, plate-by-plate survey of South Africa’s flowering plants. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76601,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flowering_Plants_of_Africa',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76601,908,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76601,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76601,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76601,697);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76602,520,'"On old Cape Cod" by Ferdinand C. Lane is a collection of poetry written in the mid-20th century. It offers a lyrical portrait of Cape Cod’s shores, dunes, marshes, and maritime life, blending natural observation with local history and myth. The poems move between celebratory and elegiac tones as they honor coastal beauty, seafaring courage, and the tug of memory over a vanishing way of life.  The opening of the work unfolds as a series of vivid vignettes: haunted shoals at Monomoy, the music of a seashell, seasonal winds, enchanted marshes, and the scents and flora of the Cape. It sketches landmarks and hazards—Nauset’s whistling buoy, Peaked Hill Bars, Race Point storms—alongside wildlife and plants, from sandpipers and wild geese to beach plums and goldenrod. Maritime lore permeates the scenes: old captains by the fire, flotsam meditations, an ancient logbook, an abandoned hulk, and tributes to Coast Guardsmen and a steadfast lighthouse keeper. Human portraits deepen the mood—a widow’s nightly vigil, a wharfside dreamer, and Easter rites on Chatham Bars—while reflective pieces weigh time’s passage, fog and midnight, the shaping tides, and lost places like Billingsgate and Hog’s Back Church. Together, these early poems establish a nostalgic, sea-battered, and myth-tinged meditation on nature, community, and mortality along the Cape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76602,908,'Reading ease score: 71.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76602,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76602,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76603,520,'"Karl Grier :  The strange story of a man with a sixth sense" by Louis Tracy is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Karl Grier, a vigorous, big-hearted man endowed with a “sixth sense” he and his friend dub telegnomy—an ability to see and hear events at a distance and to intuit the meanings behind animal and human sounds. Told by a close confidant in a brisk, semi-scientific tone, the story blends adventure, detection, and speculative psychology. Early episodes span India, the sea, and Oxford, as Karl’s gift draws him toward Maggie Hutchinson, the Armenian Constantine, and a shady New York agent named Steindal.  The opening of the novel frames Karl’s uncanny faculty and its first proofs: as a child in India he “knows” of a planned tea-garden raid and saves the Hutchinsons, and later on a homeward voyage he pinpoints an overboard passenger, Constantine, for rescue. A sympathetic doctor, Macpherson, muses on Karl’s abnormal sensory power, while schooling in Britain dulls it until a menagerie brawl and other triggers revive it. At Oxford, with his American friend Frank Hooper observing, Karl’s trances sharpen: he glimpses Manhattan Beach and a storm-tossed liner, the Merlin, likely carrying Maggie Hutchinson. Testing himself again, he “travels” to New York, watches Constantine with the theatrical agent Steindal, deciphers a coded cable meant to snare Maggie with a concert offer, and—when a restaurant band begins to play—finds he can hear across the ocean as well as see. The tension peaks when Karl’s focused attention seems to spark Constantine’s shark-vision panic, echoing his earlier near-drowning. The narrator then reveals his long-standing tie to Karl’s family, foreshadowing his role in the unfolding account. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76603,908,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76604,520,'"The long march" by William Styron is a novella written in the mid-20th century. It follows Marine reservists at a Carolina training base in the early 1950s after a deadly training accident, focusing on Lieutenant Culver, his embittered friend Captain Mannix, and their exacting commander, Colonel Templeton. The story probes fear, aging, and the pull of authority as a punishing overnight march becomes a test of bodies, loyalties, and pride.  The opening follows Culver witnessing the graphic aftermath of two misfired mortar rounds that kill eight men and wound many more, then flashing back to his reluctant recall from a settled New York life to a disorienting camp routine. Through Culver’s eyes we meet Templeton—cool, theatrical, and devoutly Marine—and Mannix, a scarred veteran whose cynicism erupts in lectures, at the officers’ club, and in memories of past peril. Templeton orders a thirty-six-mile forced march to “shape up” the battalion; Mannix responds with fierce resolve to make his company finish, despite a nail in his boot and rising pain. The narrative tracks the start of the march: a brutal pace in sand, thirst, silence broken by Mannix’s bullying cadence, brief breathers on the roadside, and Culver’s mounting panic and fatigue. Mannix’s mood swings between grief (after viewing a boy’s shattered body) and harsh command as he goads his men and wrestles with his own wound. The section closes with the march underway, Mannix hurting, and Templeton hovering—calm, implacable—as the night’s ordeal deepens. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76604,908,'Reading ease score: 77.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76604,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76604,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76605,520,'Pensées, maximes et fragments by Arthur Schopenhauer is a collection of philosophical aphorisms and fragments written in the mid-19th century. It distills a starkly pessimistic view of existence—pain as fundamental, pleasure as merely the absence of pain—alongside critiques of love, society, politics, religion, and culture, and it points toward compassion, resignation, and ascetic renunciation as the only real relief from the will. Framed for general readers, it couples bite-sized maxims with lucid, often caustic prose that lays out Schopenhauer’s ethics and metaphysics in accessible form.  The opening of the volume unfolds with a substantial biographical preface by J. Bourdeau, sketching Schopenhauer’s life from his merchant family origins and wide travels to his studies under the spell of Kant and Plato, his failed Berlin lectures during Hegel’s ascendancy, his retreat to Frankfurt, and his disciplined, eccentric bachelor routines. It highlights his temperament (acerbic, fearful, combative), his late fame, his love of animals, his polemics against professors, theologians, demagogues, and romantic illusions, and the tension between his preached asceticism and his comfortable habits. The preface also notes his style, borrowings, and the “cult” that grew around him. After this, the first section, “Douleurs du monde,” lays out his core theses: existence is structured by suffering; pleasure is negative while pain is positive; life is a ceaseless struggle swinging between torment and boredom; human consciousness magnifies misery beyond that of animals; optimism and theodicies are untenable; and the world is best seen as a penal colony. The text contrasts the tragic arc of whole lives with the comic pettiness of daily detail, attacks the “best of all possible worlds” claim, and underscores the ubiquity of death and frustration. It then turns toward resignation and renunciation, introducing compassion that breaks the illusion of separateness and gestures toward ascetic quieting of the will as the path to deliverance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76605,908,'Reading ease score: 59.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76606,520,'"Vie de Rancé" by vicomte de François-René Chateaubriand is a religious biography written in the mid-19th century. It traces the life and conversion of Armand-Jean le Bouthillier de Rancé, the severe reformer of La Trappe, set against the glitter and turmoil of 17th‑century France. Drawing on earlier chronicles and the author’s meditative asides, it contrasts courtly salons and worldly ambition with monastic austerity to probe the moral drama of renunciation. Readers interested in spiritual history and vivid portraits of the ancien régime will find it compelling.  The opening of this work begins with a dedication to the humble Abbé Séguin and brief prefaces in which the writer explains his motives and his late-life perspective. It then launches into Rancé’s early life through Don Pierre Le Nain: a prodigy favored by Richelieu, author of a youthful Anacreon, loaded with benefices, brilliant in studies, and moving among Bossuet, Retz, and the great salons during the Fronde. Long, incisive sketches of Hôtel de Rambouillet society, précieuses, Ninon de Lenclos, Madame de Sévigné, and others frame Rancé’s own worldliness—his hunting, finery, ambition, near-fatal accidents, a secret first Mass, and a deepening unease. The narrative also introduces his attachment to the duchess de Montbazon and, at the start of the second book, surveys the disputed story of his conversion—Larroque’s sensational tale of a shocking deathbed scene versus sober rebuttals by Saint‑Simon and Trappist biographers—ending with the clear sense that her death and his retreat to Veretz mark the first real break with the world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76606,500,'https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vie_de_Ranc%C3%A9',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76606,908,'Reading ease score: 72.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76606,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76606,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76606,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76606,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76607,520,'"La démission de la morale" by Émile Faguet is a philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. The work examines how moral thought moves from ancient, persuasive ethics to the Christian era’s commanding duties and, finally, to Kant’s autonomous morality of pure obligation. It asks whether modern ethics has let duty abdicate in favor of comfort, utility, or sentiment, turning morality into a mere art of living. Readers interested in ethics and intellectual history will find a rigorous, critical survey of moral foundations.  The opening of the treatise states its aim: to trace the evolution of morality—especially in France—from pre-Kantian systems to the latest debates. Faguet distinguishes morality as science (normative, rule-giving) from morality as art (techniques for happiness), then surveys antiquity: Socratic and Stoic ethics as rational yet persuasive, Epicurean ethics as eudaimonistic and hypothetical, all lacking true imperative force, much like the mixed imperatives of Greek religion with its gods, Fate, and Nemesis. He shows Christianity instituting a genuinely imperative morality grounded in obedience to God, transformed by Jesus from justice to love, yet still supported by religious sanctions; later, as faith wanes, utilitarian and sentimental “independent” moralities remain merely persuasive and subjective. Turning to Kant, he presents the first fully independent, autonomous morality: the moral fact is self-evident and categorical; duty commands without conditions; freedom is affirmed by the experience of remorse; rewards or pleasure corrupt moral purity; virtue is a conquest against nature; and an enduring tension opposes individual happiness to species-level duty—so that morality becomes, from the start, a perpetual internal struggle of the self against itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76607,908,'Reading ease score: 68.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76607,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76608,520,'"Figures de moines" by Ernest Dimnet is a collection of essays and travel sketches written in the early 20th century. It offers intimate portraits of monastic life and places—English Benedictines in Douai, Trappists, and Pyrenean abbeys—blending memoir, history, and spiritual observation. Dimnet’s narrator moves between cities, cloisters, and landscapes, lingering on ritual, architecture, and character. Readers should expect reflective prose, vivid atmosphere, and a cultured, gently nostalgic voice.  The opening of the book follows the author’s memories from Cambrai to Douai, where his early love of English letters leads to a fascination with the English Benedictines: their secluded college, Pugin’s chapel, solemn Gregorian vespers, a humane and demanding educational ethos, and finally the blow of expulsion under anticlerical laws. It then shifts to a quiet visit at La Trappe, where a sparse meal and a long, delicate conversation with an elderly hospitaller reveal theological anxieties, love of language, and the human texture of cloistered life, before a brief tour of cloister, dormitory, brewery, and cemetery. The narrative next turns to the Roussillon: train and coach into the Tet valley, the Catalan cadence of speech, the fortified charm of Villefranche (its church, streets, and a failed 17th‑century plot), and the small, beautiful Cadi valley running toward Vernet and the Canigou. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76608,908,'Reading ease score: 74.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76609,520,'"Les comédiens hors la loi" by Gaston Maugras is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It investigates why actors were long treated as socially and religiously suspect, tracing their status from sacred ritual origins through Roman infamy, Christian condemnation, medieval liturgy, and modern rehabilitation. Drawing on councils, laws, and vivid episodes, it clarifies how prejudice formed, persisted, and waned. This study will appeal to readers interested in theater history, church–state relations, and shifting cultural norms.  The opening of the work frames the subject with the 1884 Saint‑Roch mass honoring Corneille, contrasted with the punishment of a Paris curé for a similar service in 1763, and cites a lively press debate to show how misunderstood the Church’s treatment of actors remains. The author sets out his plan to survey actors’ legal and religious status from Greece and Rome through the Middle Ages to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, listing key sources. He first shows the stage arising from religious rites—honored in Greece—then becoming infamous at Rome as performances passed to slaves and to mass entertainments of the circus, mimes, and pantomimes, despite their continuing pagan-sacral character and imperial favor. He then explains the early Church’s rationale for condemning spectacles and denying sacraments to performers unless they quit the stage, notes emperors’ mixed measures (including Justinian’s permission for converts to leave the profession), and describes the decline of theaters in the West under barbarian invasions while they endured in the East. Finally, the narrative sketches the medieval revival of drama within churches—liturgical plays for major feasts alongside the unruly Feast of Fools—before the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76609,908,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76609,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76609,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76609,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76609,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76609,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76609,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76610,520,'"A tour in Mongolia" by Beatrix Manico Gull is a travel narrative written in the early 20th century. It follows an adventurous traveler from Peking through Kalgan into Inner Mongolia, blending firsthand journeys by cart, pony, and caravan with portraits of Mongol life, religion, and landscape, set against a backdrop of Chinese, Russian, and Japanese political pressures. An analytical introduction and the author’s photographs frame an ethnographic, on-the-ground account of a remote region in flux.  The opening of this account pairs a succinct political survey—explaining Mongolia’s recent break with China, Russian influence, Japanese-backed maneuvers, and the rollback of autonomy—with the author’s personal departure from Peking in search of “old order” ways. She detours to the Ming tombs (including a scuffle with a bullying gatekeeper), rides the railway to Kalgan, and observes its Mongol market, camel caravans, roadside theatre, and the ruins of the Great Wall, as well as a lively Cantonese feast. When rumors of frontier fighting persist, she joins a Finnish missionary’s small caravan and crosses the Han-o-pa Pass, sleeping in Chinese inns on heated k’angs fueled by argol. The narrative highlights ox-carts and camel trains, dust storms over the prairie, and her first yourt visit with the Mongol Dobdun, where she records tea customs, snuff-bottle etiquette, and the presence of lamas. It concludes this opening stretch with her reaching a remote mission at Ta-Bol and enduring a night of gales under canvas—an emblem of the hardship and allure of the journey ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76610,908,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76610,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76610,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76611,520,'"Khaki knitting book" by Olive Whiting is a collection of knitting and crochet patterns written in the early 20th century. A wartime relief booklet, it compiles practical patterns for garments and comforts—sweaters, socks, wristlets, mittens, caps, blankets—intended for soldiers and allies. It stresses sturdy, serviceable colors and sizing, credits relief organizations for shared directions, and directs proceeds to Allied aid.  The opening of this pattern booklet frames the effort with a patriotic poem urging readers to “knit your bit,” then a foreword noting the designs are for experienced knitters. It acknowledges contributors and warns that lending the booklet deprives Allied relief, followed by an index, abbreviations, and the first detailed patterns. Early pages lay out women’s sweaters (kimono-style, slip-over), sleeveless jackets and jerseys, multiple wristlet options, and an extensive run of men’s and hospital socks—plain, regulation, bed, heelless, and service wear—with precise yarn amounts, needle sizes, and shaping steps. Further entries introduce mufflers, mittens, caps and helmets, and practical hospital pieces such as abdominal bands, knee caps, eye bandages, wash cloths, and hot-water-bottle covers, all geared to durable wartime use. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76611,908,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76611,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76611,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76612,520,'"Jewish influences in American life :  volume III of the International Jew, the…" is a polemical collection of newspaper articles written in the early 20th century. Drawn from the Dearborn Independent, it advances an antisemitic narrative that alleges sweeping Jewish influence over American culture, religion, politics, finance, and popular entertainment. The volume positions itself as an exposé of a so‑called “Jewish Question,” framing its arguments as fact-finding while leaning heavily on hostile interpretation and sensational claims.  The opening of the book lays out a preface asserting that earlier installments spurred national debate and that the paper’s “facts” are indisputable, followed by a table of contents signaling targets such as religion, jazz, baseball, Bolshevism, Tammany Hall, Zionism, and the Federal Reserve. The first chapters argue that criticism of the series is not about “religious persecution” of Jews but, rather, that organized Jewish groups purportedly persecute Christianity; they cite selected press clippings and episodes involving public prayers, holidays, schools, and civic rituals to claim Jewish hostility to Christian symbols. The next chapter extends this line, alleging Jewish attacks on multiple Christian denominations and suggesting that “liberal” Christianity converges with Judaism, predicting the erosion of distinct Christian beliefs. The narrative then pivots to professional sports, using the Black Sox scandal to claim Jewish gamblers and businessmen corrupted baseball, naming figures like Arnold Rothstein and Abe Attell, and spinning managerial and governance struggles—such as the “Lasker Plan” and Judge Landis’s appointment—into a story of mounting Jewish control. Throughout, the text presents these accusations as documentation, but its opening portion is plainly a series of assertions and curated anecdotes designed to portray Jewish influence as pervasive and malign. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76612,908,'Reading ease score: 58.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76612,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76612,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76612,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76612,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76613,520,'"Nature''s year :  The seasons of Cape Cod" by John Hay is a collection of nature essays written in the mid-20th century. Through month-by-month observations on Cape Cod, the work blends close natural history with reflective meditation on weather, wildlife, and the uneasy overlap between human bustle and the living shore. Expect vivid portraits of birds, insects, tides, and woods as the seasons turn, with themes of migration, adaptation, and attention.  The opening of this work follows July through late October as the narrator arrives amid summer traffic and tragedy, then retreats to a hilltop home to attune himself to the Cape’s microclimates and small lives—from a wood peewee’s hunting and periwinkles on tidal rocks to a moon snail’s drill and an afternoon under sail. August dwells on insect abundance and night music (including the temperature-telling snowy tree cricket), a companionable walk with an oven bird, and a wind-swept visit to Crow Pasture where a crippled gull and vigilant terns frame lessons in necessity. Detailed scenes at Paine’s Creek and Monomoy show young terns learning to fish and gather for migration, alongside shorebirds busy on the flats, while September’s clear winds, alewife fry, and dispersing fledglings replace the departing tourists. October turns inward to questions of home and navigation, a venerable box turtle, first frosts, teaching children on a shore ramble, and the season’s colors—mushrooms, Indian pipes, and reddening oaks—before colder winds, squirrels, and shrews signal the harsher change ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76613,908,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76614,520,'"Reigin pappi" by Aino Kallas is a historical novella written in the early 20th century. It is a confessional narrative set in 17th-century Hiiumaa, where Pastor Paavali Lempelius recounts his fall from worldly favor and the spiritual and earthly trials that beset his household; his quiet wife Catharina and a newly arrived deacon, Jonas Kempe, stand at the heart of the drama.  The opening of the narrative presents Lempelius’s own preface, warning the proud through a Job-like lesson, then traces his origins: a powerful, quick-tempered scholar-priest who rises in Tallinn, marries the delicate Catharina, and enjoys honor before a classroom incident leads to a student’s accidental death. Though a courtroom ordeal clears him, public scorn ruins his name; he loses his post, sinks into poverty, and their two children die of plague. Appointed at last to remote Reigi, he finds bleak coasts, hunts seals with his parishioners, and fights superstition, while Catharina grows increasingly restless and estranged. He blesses the sea and privately prays for her, but unease deepens when the finely dressed, worldly deacon Jonas Kempe arrives; a convivial first supper, songs, and the deacon’s allure signal the tensions to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76614,908,'Reading ease score: 33.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76614,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76614,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76615,520,'"Dick Chester: A Story of the Civil War" by G. I. Whitham is a historical adventure novel written in the late 19th century. Set during the English Civil War, it follows the orphaned young baronet Dick Chester and a ragged, resourceful companion named Giles as they defy Roundhead forces to hold Dent Castle for the King, testing courage, loyalty, and honor.  The opening of the novel shows Captain John Dent abandoning Dent Castle just as enemy cavalry approaches, prompting eleven-year-old Dick to swim the moat back into his home and, with the unexpected help of Giles, resolve to defend it. After a tense parley and a lesson in honor (Dick is stopped from firing on a flag of truce), the besiegers shoot down the royal flag, which Dick promptly rehoists; Giles then risks a sortie, brings in a wounded enemy, and learns artillery is coming. The pair draw lots and Dick slips out by night to reach the royal camp at Lumley, where skeptical officers mock him until Giles’s master—clearly the highest authority present—recognizes a shared token and orders Dent relieved. Immediately afterward, Dick vanishes through a secret panel, kidnapped by John Dent’s agents; fed lies by Master Purvis and carried south under guard, he is even confronted by a staged “Royalist” threat meant to break his spirit, setting the stakes for his rescue and the fate of Dent. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76615,908,'Reading ease score: 92.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76615,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76615,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76615,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76615,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76615,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76616,520,'"The giant sequoia :  An account of the history and characteristics of the big…." by Rodney Sydes Ellsworth is a natural history and historical account written in the early 20th century. It blends science, travelogue, and advocacy to explain the giant sequoia and coast redwood—their deep antiquity, form, range, and the human history entwined with them, especially in the Mariposa Grove. Readers can expect vivid portraits of famous trees, clear distinctions between the two Sequoia species, accounts of the Sierra Nevada’s making, and a strong conservation message about threats, vandalism, and protection.  The opening of this work sets out a popular-yet-faithful synthesis of scientific and literary sources, then traces the sequoia’s fossil-deep lineage, its survival through volcanic cataclysms and glaciations, and its present restriction to California’s coast and Sierra belts. It contrasts the coast redwood’s soaring height and immense timber yields with the giant sequoia’s unmatched girth and longevity, and maps their modern groves—highlighting the Mariposa and the vast southern forests like the Giant Forest. A substantial section recounts Galen Clark’s life: his discovery and early guiding at Wawona, the building of trails and roads, the 1864 Yosemite and Mariposa Grove grant, his long guardianship, fire protection and brush clearing, and the criticism and praise that followed, ending with the commissioners’ formal tribute. The narrative then tours the Mariposa Grove itself—its easy access, compact grandeur, and named specimens (such as the Grizzly Giant, the exceptionally tall Mark Twain Tree, and the symmetrically flawless Alabama Tree)—while explaining fire scars, hollow “chimney” trunks, and great fallen logs like the Fallen Monarch. It condemns wasteful lumbering and exhibition vandalism in other groves but notes that Mariposa was spared, aside from the famous vehicle passages cut through the Wawona and California trees. The section closes with emblematic scenes like the intertwined “Faithful Couple” and the glowing “Sun Worshippers,” underscoring the grove’s majesty and the case for its preservation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76616,908,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76616,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76616,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76616,685);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76617,520,'Too old to fly by Ivan March is a pulp war aviation short story written in the late 1920s. It centers on an aging Marine machine gunner who yearns to fly and ultimately proves himself in World War I aerial combat.  Sergeant Horatio “Dad” Galladay, a battle-worn Marine and master machine gunner, is sidelined to teach recruits but longs to get airborne. He persuades ace pilot Buck Weaver to take him on a brief hop over the lines, despite the worries of Buck’s sweetheart, Ruth Childers. Over Nieuport they are ambushed by Fokkers; Galladay freezes at first, then rallies as Weaver is badly wounded, cutting down three enemy planes with the rear Lewis guns. When Weaver passes out and the De Havilland falls into a spin, Galladay snaps in the rear controls, steadies the shredded aircraft, and brings it back over Allied lines. In the hospital afterward, Weaver survives and he and Ruth become fully engaged, while Galladay—himself wounded—faces acclaim for his valor. The tale closes with the old sergeant’s fierce, boyish joy at finally flying and his eagerness to return to the fight. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76617,908,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76617,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76617,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76618,520,'"Alpine flora of the Canadian Rocky Mountains" by Stewardson Brown is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. It is an illustrated botanical manual and field guide to the alpine and subalpine plants of the Canadian Rockies and Selkirks, with identification keys, concise descriptions, habitats, and notes on distribution. The work focuses on plants along the Canadian Pacific Railway corridor between Banff and Glacier, and is designed for naturalists and travelers seeking to recognize the region’s trees, shrubs, ferns, and wildflowers.  The opening of the work presents a preface outlining scope and audience, distinguishing the drier, cold-adapted flora of the Rockies from the moisture-loving Selkirks, and noting that grasses, sedges, and willows are omitted to keep the guide practical; it also explains the arrangement by families, with keys and numerous new illustrations. A glossary and a comprehensive family key follow, leading into detailed species accounts that begin with ferns and their allies (e.g., moonworts Botrychium, maidenhair Adiantum, bracken, horsetails Equisetum, club-mosses Lycopodium, Selaginella), then conifers and other woody plants (whitebark pine, Douglas-fir, mountain hemlock, Alberta spruce, junipers, giant cedar, yew). Subsequent sections introduce early-blooming monocots and allies, such as western skunk cabbage, bunch-flowers (Veratrum, Zygadenus, Tofieldia), lilies (mountain-lily, snow lily), and lily-of-the-valley relatives (Clintonia, false Solomon’s seal, twisted-stalk, Kruhsea), each with habitat, elevation, and flowering times, and frequent notes on whether a plant is more typical of the Rockies or Selkirks. The text is systematic, field-oriented, and richly illustrated at the outset. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76618,908,'Reading ease score: 62.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76618,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76618,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76619,520,'"Hetty''s garden-party, and what came of it by Emma Leslie" is a moral children''s novella from the Victorian era. It follows a vain but good-hearted girl whose ill-judged attempt at social display leads to embarrassment, debt, and hard lessons about truthfulness, modest living, and useful work.  Hetty Golding invites a crowd to a garden-party, pretending she has the right to use a neighbor’s grand garden and skimping on refreshments to keep up appearances. The event collapses into humiliation when the gardener confronts the guests, bills go unpaid, and Hetty’s mother falls gravely ill amid other family worries. Forced to face the consequences, Hetty writes a humble apology, endures public gossip, accepts a small loan to buy necessities, and begins teaching music to support the household. Her uncle later returns, steadies their finances, and Hetty chooses honest industry over showy friendships, repays her debts (including garden damages), and grows into a kinder, steadier young woman. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76619,908,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76619,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76619,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76619,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76620,520,'"Mother''s golden guineas" by Annette Lyster is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on spirited village boy Tom Adderley, whose hunger for adventure clashes with family duty and Christian conscience as he leaves his Yorkshire home, goes to sea, and finds his character tested by hardship, authority, and the hope of repaying his mother''s treasured savings.  The opening of the novel paints the close-knit, tradition-bound village of Burdeck and the thrifty Adderley household, especially the mother’s carefully hoarded guineas. Restless Tom quarrels over wages, briefly tries the forge, and—fired by the tales of wanderer Jeremiah Dwight—slips away at night with his mother’s money, reaches Liverpool, and ships out as a boy on a West India trader. Years later, as he returns prosperously, he is pressed into a Royal Navy frigate, loses his kit and savings during a boat scuffle, and grows sullen until kindly sailor Gideon Terlizzeck counsels him and reads the Prodigal Son. After Tom deserts at Port Royal and is recaptured, Gideon pleads for him; the captain spares flogging, Tom vows to do his duty, and the ship heads back to sea, setting the stage for his reform and future trials. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76620,908,'Reading ease score: 90.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76620,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76620,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76620,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76620,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76621,520,'"Sergeant Dick of the Royal Mounted Police :  A thrilling story of the Canadian…." by John G. Rowe is an adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set along the Canadian Rockies near the U.S. border, it follows Sergeant John Dick of the Mounties as he tangles with the masked White Hood rustlers and a rising threat from Paquita Island’s Reservation. Aiding him are Muriel Arnold and her family, who inhabit “Water Castle,” a fortified lake house with a sailing scow known as the Ark. The focus is on fast-paced chases, sieges, and frontier ingenuity.  The opening of the story finds Sergeant Dick battling a gale in Crooked Gulch when he stumbles upon a stagecoach robbery by hooded outlaws; wounded in the skirmish, he’s rescued by Muriel Arnold and her cousin Jenny and brought to their unique stronghold on Lake Paquita. After a brisk tour of the cleverly fortified “Water Castle,” news arrives that the Arnolds’ men are fleeing in canoes from armed Indigenous pursuers, and a running firefight—amplified by the lake’s uncanny echo—follows. As reinforcements of canoes appear, the family and Dick prepare the house for siege; Dick’s attempt to parley with the chief, Howling Wolf, is answered with treachery, and a night assault begins. The attackers try a silent climb onto the verandah, narrowly miss felling the defenders with thrown weapons, and are driven off by Dick’s shooting. When Howling Wolf attempts to cut the Ark free and use it as cover, Muriel’s blazing tar-barrel illuminates the scene, and Dick and the Arnolds shift the fight aboard the Ark, where the opening portion closes with them repelling boarders from within the shuttered cabin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76621,908,'Reading ease score: 75.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76622,520,'"The story hunter : or, Tales of the weird and wild" by Ernest R. Suffling is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. Framed by a narrator who lives alone in a caravan and hypnotizes chance acquaintances, it gathers weird, speculative, and adventurous tales told first‑hand by his guests.  The opening of the volume introduces the narrator’s Bohemian life and his method, leading into “The Strange Discovery of Doctor Nosidy,” where a fervid experimenter claims the soul is “brain‑ether” and builds an electrical device to read thoughts from skulls; failed trials with a mummy and a Saxon king, a quarrelsome modern skull, and bold theorizing culminate in his ethical dread of revealing the secret. The frame then shifts to a storm on the Cornish coast and “Two Ruined Towers”: a wealthy stranger recalls, as a young artist, rescuing a mysterious elder who proves to be the Wandering Jew; together they hide a pump and diving gear, excavate a riverbed between two ancient towers, and, after weeks of night work, recover a vast hoard of gold and gems that the artist later uses for philanthropy as his immortal guide disappears. The section closes by introducing another source, Billy Flowerdue on the Norfolk coast, whose hypnotic reminiscence begins with his Yarmouth youth, an apprenticeship to sea, and a bar‑parlour encounter with a travelling showman and his giant, setting up the next tale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76622,908,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76622,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76622,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76622,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76623,520,'"The carnal god by John R. Speer and Carlisle Schnitzer" is a weird‑fiction pulp horror novelette written in the late 1930s. The story centers on an occult cult in London led by a mesmerizing countess who serves an alien deity, and on the struggle to save a young woman marked for sacrificial rites.  A disfigured scientist, Pierre Soret, warns Dr. Carl Fielding that his fiancée Ruth has been ensnared by the Countess Moonard’s cult of Moonere, which draws unearthly power from Sudre, a moon of a distant planet. Pierre reveals the temple’s star-glass that focuses deadly rays and an idol that becomes animate during rites. Using telepathy, a scrying “bowl,” and a counter‑ray, Pierre battles the cult from his hidden laboratory while Inspector Chadwick briefly falls under the countess’s spell. As the sacrificial night peaks, Pierre—dying under Sudre’s rays—guides Carl to the temple with a silver disk that reflects a fatal beam, melting the golden idol and driving the countess to destruction in her own fire. The temple collapses, the enthralled women are freed and age to their true years, and Ruth is saved. Pierre perishes, his voice fading after one last aid from beyond, and Carl and Ruth return to ordinary life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76623,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76623,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76623,638);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76624,520,'"Le grand-ouest des États-Unis :  Les pionniers et les peaux-rouges : les colons…." by L. Simonin is an epistolary travel narrative and historical account written in the late 19th century. It follows a French traveler crossing the American Great West during the age of the transcontinental railroad, observing pioneers, Native nations, mining camps, and the swift rise of frontier towns, especially in Colorado. The work blends on-the-ground reportage with reflections on democracy and colonization, and signals an added study of early California.  The opening of the book recounts how the Paris Exposition leads the narrator to accept an invitation to visit Colorado’s mines with J.-P. Whitney and Colonel Heine, framing the chapters as letters written en route. He sails to New York, speeds by rail to Chicago, and sketches that city’s explosive growth, grain elevators, lake-water tunnel, and pork industry before pushing on to Omaha, the launch point of the Pacific railroad. Crossing Illinois and Iowa alongside emigrants, he contrasts “civilization” with the Far West, describes Omaha and nearby tribes, and notes recent attacks on railway workers. He then rides the Union Pacific across the Platte country to Julesburg, evokes prairie fires, French toponyms, and buffalo, visits Fort Sedgwick, and boards the overland stage with an armed escort. The stage journey to Denver brings fortified stations, accounts of frontier violence (including Sand Creek), harrowing captivity tales, and admiration for the grit of settlers—ending with a safe arrival. In Denver he depicts a young but bustling city born of 1859 gold finds, its institutions, markets, and outsized produce, then outlines the territory’s origins and social life before setting off into the Rockies; the section closes with horseback travels to Central City and Georgetown and vivid notes on dusty roads and communal washing stops. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76624,908,'Reading ease score: 66.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76624,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76624,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76624,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76625,520,'"The Little Review, June 1917 (Vol. 4, No. 2) by Various" is a literary magazine issue from the early 20th century. It gathers modernist poetry, essays, translations, criticism, and reader correspondence. The likely topic is the ferment of contemporary arts and ideas—poetry’s new forms, debates over censorship and taste, and the pressures of wartime culture on aesthetics and society.  This issue features translations of Li Po’s lyrics—delicate images of intoxication, memory, and mountain quiet—followed by “Push-Face,” a sharp polemic reporting an anti-conscription crowd in New York and skewering fashionable charity pageantry. A brief imagist meditation by Louis Gilmore leads into a major suite of poems by W. B. Yeats on aging, passion, loss, and enduring beauty. Ezra Pound contributes a dialogic fantasia with Rabelais that tests censorship, philology, university pedantry, and the freedoms and follies of different ages. Wyndham Lewis’s letter from Petrograd contrasts Russian psychological realism with English patriotic myth-making and argues for the “little man” against gentlemanly varnish. “The Reader Critic” section crackles with notes from James Joyce and spirited debates over editorial practice, poetic value, and magazine ethics, including rejoinders to The Dial and a pointed exchange with Mary MacLane. The number closes with bookshop offerings, announcements of forthcoming work, and publishing notices. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76625,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Little_Review',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76625,908,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76625,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76625,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76625,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76626,520,'"The letters of Hart Crane, 1916-1932" by Hart Crane is a collection of letters written in the mid-20th century. The volume, edited and framed by Brom Weber, assembles the poet’s correspondence to reveal his artistic formation, personal entanglements, and the lived background of major works like The Bridge. Expect a candid self-portrait of a modernist poet negotiating ambition, love, illness, and literary community.  The opening of the collection presents Weber’s preface and chronology, positioning Crane as a major American poet and explaining why the letters matter: they are emotionally frank, often written across distance, and closely intertwined with periods of peak poetic productivity. Weber outlines an editorial approach of minimal interference and full candor (tempered only to avoid harming living individuals), argues against judging the poetry by the life, and sketches Crane’s recurring struggles with relationships, sexuality, alcohol, and self-sabotage. A concise life outline follows (Ohio youth; early New York immersion; advertising work; the conception, funding, and completion of The Bridge; travel; the Guggenheim; death at sea). The first letters (1916–1920) then show a young writer juggling exams, early publication, and a headlong entry into New York’s literary world (meeting figures like Padraic Colum and Vachel Lindsay), alongside money and housing woes, parental divorce tensions, and flirtations with Christian Science. They also trace his return to Ohio to work for his father, his deepening ties with fellow writers and editors, the drafting of “My Grandmother’s Love Letters,” sharp literary opinions, and a discreetly acknowledged love affair—establishing the tone of urgency, vulnerability, and craft that will carry through the correspondence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76626,908,'Reading ease score: 69.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76627,520,'"Von Kindern und jungen Hunden" by Rudolf Presber is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The work blends gentle satire and affection to observe human foibles through vignettes of animals—especially dogs—and the quirky adults around them, with a particular eye for the art world and petty bourgeois manners.  The opening of the book tells the tale of Flocki, a pug–poodle cross whose cunning appetite and perpetual grubbiness shape the lives of his doting owner, the still‑life painter Eleonore Eikötter, and her neighbor, the landscapist Emil Steinbrink. Flocki “critiques” Eleonore’s edible still lifes by barking to hasten their completion and then devouring the models, while Emil and Eleonore drift into a daily, companionable routine. Tensions flare when Eleonore’s sharp‑tongued sister Adelgunde arrives and a trivial restaurant spat leaves Eleonore upset; soon after, she falls into a fever, deliriously invoking painters and her dog, and dies. Flocki remains untroubled, Emil helps with the arrangements, and a sealed envelope labeled “My Will” is found, prompting plans to consult Eleonore’s lawyer; the will’s contents are not yet revealed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76627,908,'Reading ease score: 70.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76627,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76627,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76627,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76628,520,'"Beyond the hills" by Maysel Jenkinson is a children''s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows three siblings—Billy, Nancy, and Mavis—who, inspired by tales of Sir Walter Raleigh and Robert Louis Stevenson, slip away with their donkey Modestine to discover what lies beyond the river-hills. On the road they gain a new companion, the lonely Montague, and meet sympathetic adults, promising gentle, character-led adventures rather than high peril.  The opening of the novel shows the children gazing across the Gleam toward the tantalizing hills, deciding to seek “the Unknown” with their rechristened donkey, Modestine. They depart at dawn, narrowly evade discovery by stern Great-Aunt Hewlett (who plies them with hot batch cakes), and breakfast while trespassing in a meadow, where a young landowner, Dick Frampton, indulges their enthusiasm by presiding over a playful “libation” to the God of Adventure; meanwhile, their worried parents search by car but miss them. The trio then meets Montague Francis de Vere, an unhappy boy chafing under a strict great-aunt, who eagerly joins after a hasty clean-up; with the help of a friendly ferryman’s son they cross the river, pass through a scattered village, cross the canal, and climb higher, pausing for a picnic and nap. Tired but elated, they head toward a nearby Priory to ask for lodging, where a genial, attentive man comes to the gate as the scene ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76628,908,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76628,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76628,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76628,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76628,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76629,520,'"Gallio :  or, The tyranny of science by J. W. N. Sullivan" is a philosophical essay of cultural criticism written in the early 20th century. The book examines the growing prestige of science and challenges its claim to define reality, especially where it sidelines art, morals, and spiritual experience. Its likely topic is the limits of scientific method and the need to recognize values, purpose, and imagination as central to human knowledge.  The essay opens with the rise of scientific authority from Darwin to Einstein, noting how artists first resisted and then, after the War, often embraced a bleak materialism. It argues that modern physics—especially relativity—undermines the old “iron laws,” showing that scientific laws are mind-shaped selections from a world of “point-events,” and that science offers only partial, abstract descriptions of reality. Sullivan criticizes the fetish of measurement and the misuse of scientific prestige in fields like eugenics, crude psychoanalysis, and behaviourism, as well as the fallacy of “explaining by origins.” He urges humility before quantum mysteries and calls for richer abstractions, drawing on thinkers like Eddington and Whitehead to replace “substance” with “organism” and to reconnect space, time, memory, and expectation. Art—especially music—is presented as a mode of genuine knowledge that reveals possibilities of the spirit and anticipates human growth. The book closes by denying that science should tyrannize culture: its scope is limited, its laws are provisional and self-referential, and it is largely irrelevant to the deepest moral and spiritual concerns. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76629,908,'Reading ease score: 50.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76630,908,'Reading ease score: 61.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76631,520,'"O locura o santidad :  Drama en tres actos y en prosa" by José Echegaray is a drama written in the late 19th century. Set in Madrid, it follows Don Lorenzo de Avendaño, a rigorously principled intellectual, whose daughter Inés loves Eduardo, son of the Duchess of Almonte. When the dying nurse Juana reveals that Lorenzo’s name and fortune are not truly his, he must choose between proclaiming a devastating truth or safeguarding his child’s happiness. The play tests honor, identity, and parental love to ask whether uncompromising virtue is sanctity—or madness.  The opening of the play unfolds in Don Lorenzo’s study: after meditating on Don Quixote, he learns from Dr. Tomás that Inés’s fragile health hinges on a quick marriage to Eduardo, and he resolves to appeal to the Duchess. Inés rejoices, but the arrival of Juana brings a letter confessing that Lorenzo is not the biological son of his supposed parents and that his wealth is illegitimate; Juana, near death, reveals herself as his true mother. Overwhelmed, Lorenzo rejects the Duchess’s proposal, and Inés collapses. At the start of Act II, Eduardo presses his mother to consent and to hush the scandal while quietly restoring the fortune, Ángela urges silence for Inés’s sake, and Lorenzo—torn between duty and love—insists on declaring the whole truth even if it ruins them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76631,908,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76631,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76632,520,'"A vocabulary of criminal slang : with some examples of common usages" by Louis E. Jackson is a glossary of criminal slang written in the early 20th century. It catalogs the underworld’s vocabulary for the benefit of law officers, the press, and other professionals, pairing definitions with usage notes and cross-references. The focus is practical: to strip secrecy from criminal jargon and improve detection, prosecution, and reform.  The opening of this work sets a sober, reform-minded tone: a dedication to a sheriff, a statement that the book aims to aid public servants rather than sensationalize, and an argument that exposing slang diminishes its power. The preface explains how slang mutates, shows how meanings arise (such as “dope”), urges cooperation from readers to expand the list, and offers a brief survey of crime types and their economic and moral costs, criticizing prisons that idle rather than train. After this, the alphabetical vocabulary begins—dense with entries from ADMAN and ANGEL through early S-terms—each giving concise meanings, common contexts (e.g., pickpockets, yeggs, shoplifters), examples in sentences, and frequent cross-references that map the criminal subcultures’ speech. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76632,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76632,697);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76632,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76632,687);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76633,520,'"Journal de route de Henri Duveyrier" by Henri Duveyrier is a travel journal written in the mid-19th century. It records a scientific and ethnographic journey across the Algerian and Tunisian Sahara, mixing precise route notes with observations on peoples, languages, flora, fauna, water sources, and oasis life. This edition frames the field notes with an editorial preface and a biographical sketch that situate the expedition and its methods.  The beginning of the volume presents a foreword explaining the posthumous publication and light editing of the field notebooks, followed by a biography tracing the explorer’s Provençal family, early schooling in Germany, love of languages and natural history, guidance from prominent scholars, a formative Algerian trip, mentorship by Heinrich Barth, and thorough preparation to travel openly as a Christian. The journal then opens at Biskra (January–February), where the traveler lists the diverse sub-Saharan communities present, studies local mollusks and thermal waters, checks time and latitude, and notes Roman remains. Setting out southward, he crosses Chegga and Oumm-et-Tiour to the Oued-Righ and the Souf, describing dunes, winds, vegetation (drin, retam, arta), fauna tracks, and the labor of desert travel with guides and camels. He sketches the oases and towns—Merhaier, Guemar, Tarhzout, Kouinin, and El-Oued—with remarks on irrigation, palm culture, prices, religious affiliations, and local traditions of origin. Turning toward Ouargla via Sidi el-Bachir and Sayyal, he encounters Touareg on the move and hears of tensions between tribes before traversing hamada and sebkha. The opening section closes with his arrival at Ouargla, a first survey of its kasbah ruins, narrow vaulted streets, mosques, tribal quarters, Mozabite colony, and the populace’s complaints about abuses by local notables. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76633,908,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76633,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76633,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76633,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76634,520,'"Lillian''s Vow; or, The Mystery of Raleigh House" by Mrs. E. Burke Collins is a novel written in the late 19th century. It’s a sensational mystery-romance set in urban high society, beginning with the murder of Gilbert Leigh and his daughter Lillian’s vow to unmask the killer. Drawn into the orbit of the powerful Raleigh family, Lillian crosses paths with jealous heiress Rosamond, her menacing brother Richard, noble journalist Jack Lyndon, and the poised yet secretive Lenore Van Alstyne, as intrigue, class cruelty, and even a possible haunting gather around Raleigh House.  The opening of the story launches with the nighttime assault and strangulation of Gilbert Leigh, the theft of his memorandum-book, and Lillian’s chilling vow over his body to find the murderer. Soon after, Rosamond Raleigh’s orphaned maid Noisette dies at her work, the family quietly suppresses any inquest, and Lillian—seeking refuge and employment—becomes Rosamond’s “companion,” only to be mistreated and menaced by Richard. At a Raleigh reception, a clairvoyant announces that Gilbert’s killer is present, the lights fail, and Lenore Van Alstyne collapses, hinting at buried secrets. Jack Lyndon protects Lillian from Richard’s advances, while Rosamond’s jealousy spikes; later, Lillian and Rosamond witness what seems to be Noisette’s ghost painting in the “round room.” The section closes with Lillian receiving an anonymous summons promising a clew to her father’s killer, while Lenore faces her domineering husband and the ominous question of “C. F.,” deepening the sense of mystery and scandal. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76634,908,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76635,520,'"Le relazioni politiche di Roma con l''Egitto dalle origini al 50 a. C." by Barbagallo is a historical study written in the early 20th century. The work examines the diplomatic, economic, and strategic ties between Rome and Ptolemaic Egypt, embedding each episode within the broader logic of Roman foreign policy. It advances a critical reassessment of idealized narratives about Roman virtue and “civilizing” conquest, emphasizing material interests and power politics.  The opening of the study sets out a historiographical correction: earlier monographs are faulted for stringing facts without explaining them through Rome’s evolving foreign-policy aims, and the author pledges a rigorous, source-based critique of Rome’s motives and myths. He first sketches Ptolemaic Egypt’s enviable agricultural wealth, industry (notably papyrus), trade networks, social structure, and cultured Alexandrian life, then contrasts this with Rome’s declining smallholding agriculture, scant industry, and militarized, predatory expansion. Against this backdrop come the first contacts: Ptolemy II’s embassy to Rome, likely driven by political caution and commercial interests, followed by a reciprocal mission and a practical, non-aggression friendship with trade provisions. In the Punic era, Egypt mediates and supplies grain to Rome in crisis, while Rome renews ties and Egypt cautiously seeks influence in Greek affairs via Roman approval. The narrative then dismantles the later legend that Rome acted as guardian for the young Ptolemy V, showing instead a web of embassies and threats aimed at Philip V and Antiochus III. As the Second Macedonian War unfolds, Rome’s settlements prioritize “Greek freedom” while largely ignoring Egypt’s claims, leaving it stripped of most Aegean and Asia Minor holdings, even as Antiochus seizes Coele-Syria and advances through Asia Minor. The section closes with Rome confronting Antiochus at Lysimachia, staking claims that reveal its real concern: checking Syrian power in Europe rather than restoring Egyptian possessions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76635,908,'Reading ease score: 42.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76635,659);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76636,520,'"My country''s part" by Mary Synon is a patriotic educational work written in the early 20th century. It explains America’s role in the World War and what citizens—especially young people—can do to support it, blending an inspiring fictional vignette with clear, accessible history and civic guidance. Expect a strong emphasis on loyalty to the United States, the meaning of democracy, and practical home‑front duties like conservation, fundraising, and volunteer service.  The opening of the book begins with a short story about John Sutton and his resolute, blind grandmother, who senses the danger of divided loyalties as John’s father attends a secret meeting where Irish and German sympathizers plot un-American acts. She confronts the conspirators, shaming them as immigrants who owe allegiance to their adopted country, then takes John to the Battery by Castle Garden to recount her famine-era immigration, love for Ireland and deeper gratitude to America, and to bind him by a pledge to put country first after God. The narrative then shifts to concise nonfiction: the arrival of American veterans from France, why the war is a fight of democracy versus autocracy, how German actions pushed the United States from neutrality to a congressional declaration of war, and how the nation mobilizes—selective service, training camps, Pershing’s forces, and the “rear-line trenches” of the home front through food and fuel conservation, Liberty Loans and Thrift Stamps, and Red Cross relief. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76636,908,'Reading ease score: 69.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76636,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76636,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76636,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76637,520,'"Wee Johnnie Paterson, & other humorous sketches" by W. Grant Stevenson is a collection of comic sketches written in the early 20th century. The pieces poke affectionate fun at everyday Scottish life—domestic muddles, social pretensions, village gossip, and civic rituals—often told in rich Scots dialect by a wry, observant narrator. Recurring figures like the long-suffering M’Cranky household and unstoppable talkers enliven situations from parties to funerals to Burns Night, with sly social satire and lighthearted misadventure.  The opening of the collection presents a brief preface explaining that the author has printed popular recitation pieces at friends’ request, then launches into a sequence of sketches: a chatterbox endlessly digresses while trying to describe an accident in “Wee Johnnie Paterson”; “Boys” lampoons the know-it-all modern lad through an overbearing nephew and his pranks; “An Amateur Cook” charts a lone husband’s culinary disasters; and “The M’Crankys at a Party” skewers drawing-room albums, earnest violin solos, and chaotic whist. “Burns’s Anniversary and the Mildness of the Season” follows a marathon of toasts and late-night wanderings as unintended proof of mild weather; “Johnnie Gibb’s Funeral” captures neighbourly Doric gossip; “Spring Cleaning” drives the narrator from a turpentine-choked house to a fishing escape; “A Marriage” offers wry notes on a restrained wedding and its rituals; “After-Dinner Speeches” gives tongue-in-cheek advice for toast-makers; and “How d’ye do?” shows a single polite greeting trapping the narrator in a torrent of ailments—all brisk, humorous snapshots that set the tone for the work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76637,908,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76637,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76637,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76637,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76638,520,'La Légende des siècles tome III by Victor Hugo is a collection of narrative poems written in the late 19th century. The volume ranges across myth, history, and allegory to probe tyranny, war, faith, justice, and the stubborn hope of human progress. Gods, kings, sages, soldiers, and common lives appear in vivid tableaux that question power and celebrate the human spirit.  The opening of the volume centers on Le Satyre: a faun hauled by Hercules before Jupiter, ridiculed by the gods, who then sings—on Mercury’s flute and Apollo’s lyre—four visions of the sky, the earth’s dark roots and chaos, humanity’s fall under kings and wars yet tending toward emancipation, and a final cosmic challenge where Pan confronts Olympus. Subsequent poems leap through eras: a biting exchange among infamous rulers where Borgia outbids Satan; Clarté d’âmes, a nocturne of solitary thinkers whose thoughts brighten the dawn; an allegory of waterfalls birthing an arc of glory; a Spanish infanta with her rose set against Philip II brooding over the Armada and a breeze no prince can command; a Nicaraguan volcano refusing baptism in protest at the Inquisition; a jaunty sea-ballad of adventurers dwindling to ten; an ironic vignette of “kindly” torturers; a meditation on the guillotine’s blade catching a star; and the start of a martial sketch of the Imperial Swiss halberdiers under Baron Madruce. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76638,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_L%C3%A9gende_des_si%C3%A8cles https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_L%C3%A9gende_des_si%C3%A8cles',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76638,908,'Reading ease score: 72.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76638,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76638,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76638,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76639,520,'"Eloisa : or, A series of original letters" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau is an epistolary novel written in the mid-18th century. It centers on a morally charged, socially fraught love between a young tutor and his noble pupil, Eloisa, testing the boundaries between passion, virtue, and class. Early figures include Eloisa’s stern father, her perceptive cousin Clara, and a circle of observers who frame the lovers’ struggle. The tone promises intimate emotional conflict set against debates about morality, sincerity, and the corruptions of fashionable society.  The opening of the work presents Rousseau’s prefaces and a lively dialogue in which he defends the letter-novel’s purpose: to edify readers outside the corruptions of big-city taste, praise rural virtue, and privilege heartfelt truth over polished artifice. Then the correspondence begins: the tutor confesses his perilous love for Eloisa, begs to be banished, and wrestles with respect, desire, and duty; Eloisa’s brief notes restrain him, and her long confession pleads with him to protect her honour even as she admits she loves him. He vows chaste devotion, while Clara advises, worries over propriety, and hurries to rejoin her cousin as a discreet guardian. When the tutor bristles at Eloisa’s new composure and tighter chaperonage, she rebukes his ingratitude and starts to explain how strict upbringing first made her love feel like a crime. The opening closes with the lovers’ secret, mounting struggle—passion contained by promises, family authority, and the vigilant eyes of a trusted friend. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76639,908,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76639,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76639,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76639,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76639,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76640,520,'"Onkel Tom''s Hütte :  oder die Geschichte eines christlichen Sklaven. Band…." by Harriet Beecher Stowe is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story examines American slavery through interwoven journeys, contrasting the cruelty of the slave trade with acts of faith and compassion. It centers on Uncle Tom as well as the fugitive couple Eliza and George Harris, alongside figures like the trader Haley and sympathetic Quakers.  The opening of the novel follows Tom, sold and carried south by the trader Haley, whose pitiless calculations contrast with Tom’s steadfast Christian hope. A court-house auction in Washington tears an elderly mother, Hagar, from her son; on a riverboat, passengers argue over slavery while Haley secretly sells a young mother’s baby in Louisville, driving her to throw herself into the river. The scene shifts to a peaceful Quaker household where Rachel Halliday shelters Eliza and her son, reunites her with George Harris, and quietly organizes their night journey toward safety. At the start of the next movement, the narrative returns to the Mississippi: Tom, granted some trust, labors kindly among the crew and reads his Bible while the boat passes plantation after plantation, and we meet the New Orleans gentleman St. Clare and his ethereal little daughter, Eva. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76640,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onkel_Toms_H%C3%BCtte',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76640,908,'Reading ease score: 77.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76640,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76640,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76640,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76640,635);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76641,520,'"The Molly Maguires and the detectives" by Allan Pinkerton is a nonfiction investigative account written in the late 19th century. It chronicles Pinkerton’s covert campaign against the secretive Molly Maguires in Pennsylvania’s anthracite coal region, undertaken at the request of railroad executive Franklin B. Gowen, and follows undercover operative James McParlan (alias James McKenna) as he works to infiltrate the organization amid labor strife, violence, and political intrigue.  The opening of the book sets Pinkerton’s pledge to tell a factual, unvarnished story of the coal fields and a violent secret society that, he argues, has evaded justice. Gowen solicits Pinkerton to penetrate the Mollies, whose alibis, intimidation, and sway over local politics have thwarted prosecutions, and Pinkerton accepts with strict conditions of secrecy and a plan to embed an Irish Catholic operative. Pinkerton then selects James McParlan, sketches his background and disguise, and launches him under the alias “James McKenna.” McKenna begins by tramping through towns like Port Clinton, Schuylkillhaven, Tremont, Tower City, and Minersville, posing as a job-seeking laborer while building contacts: he’s refused lodging by a drunken landlord, sheltered by an Irish family (with a comic drunk blocking a door), and quietly probes opinions by discussing scathing newspaper pieces on the Mollies with men like the switchman Fitzgibbons. He cultivates leads through saloon talk (including a former member’s hints that Mahanoy City is fertile ground), descends into a working mine to learn the setting, endures a snowbound stage ride and shabby lodging, and finally settles into a modest boarding house, using evenings in bars and card rooms to deepen his cover and map the society’s haunts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76641,908,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76641,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76641,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76641,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76642,520,'"An accurate and authentic journal of the siege of Quebec, 1759 by Anonymous" is a first-hand historical account written in the mid-18th century. It traces the British campaign against French-held Quebec during the Seven Years'' War, focusing on naval movements, siege operations, and the decisive battle that determined control of the city.  The journal opens with a clear description of Quebec’s geography and formidable defenses, then follows the British fleet from Louisbourg into the St. Lawrence, the landing on Île d’Orléans, and the establishment of batteries at Point Lévis that set parts of the Upper Town, including the cathedral, ablaze. It recounts a failed assault at Montmorency after grenadiers advanced prematurely, followed by raids and maneuvers above the city as ships and troops slipped past Quebec under fire. The climax is a night landing west of the town, a daring ascent of the cliffs, and rapid deployment on the Plains of Abraham, where a disciplined close volley and bayonet charge routed the French. General Wolfe is mortally wounded at the moment of victory, and Montcalm dies of his wounds the next day. The city capitulates soon after; the terms are hastened by the season, the risk to the fleet, and reports of Bougainville’s approaching force. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76642,908,'Reading ease score: 48.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76642,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76642,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76642,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76642,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76642,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76643,520,'Heu-Heu, or The Monster by H. Rider Haggard is a novel written in the early 20th century. It plunges Allan Quatermain into a supernatural-tinged African adventure sparked by a terrifying cave painting of an ape-like “Monster-god” and the call of a hidden people guarded by legend and fear. With his crafty companion Hans and the enigmatic wizard Zikali, Quatermain is drawn toward a lost land, forbidden rituals, and a threat that blurs the line between myth and reality.  The opening of the novel finds Allan Quatermain, prompted by friends at his Yorkshire home, recounting an episode that begins on the Drakensberg slopes when a colossal storm forces his wagon party—himself, Hans, and two Zulu hands—into a vast cave. There, after a perilous crawl past a death-chasm full of ancient bones, moonlight reveals a Bushman painting of a monstrous, half-human figure called Heu-Heu. Haunted by the image, Quatermain treks into Zululand, witnesses a grim royal execution at Nongela Rock, and reaches Zikali in the Black Kloof. The wizard conjures a fiery vision of the same creature, offers replacement oxen, and unfolds a legend: a cruel northern ruler slain by his people returns as Heu-Heu to haunt a volcano-ringed land, abduct women, and sire the savage Heuheua; in that hidden country, a rare “Tree of Visions” grows—its leaves the key to Zikali’s magic and the bait that sets Quatermain’s road toward Heu-Heu, and possibly diamonds and ivory. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76643,908,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76643,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76643,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76643,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76643,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76644,520,'"Clicking red heels by Paul Ernst" is a pulp horror short story written in the late 1930s. It follows a wealthy young man whose affair with a cobbler’s daughter turns deadly and whose guilt—or a curse—begins to stalk him in the form of phantom footsteps. The likely topic is the collision of calculated murder with supernatural retribution, blurring the line between psychological torment and an actual haunting.  Eldon Gruin, fearing scandal from his obsessive lover Maria José, engineers her death by sending their car over a Palisades cliff while he clings to a tree branch. Publicly, it looks like an accident, but Maria’s father curses him to be forever accompanied by her presence. Eldon soon hears unseen steps—echoes of Maria’s red heels—matching his every move; traces of her appear in his room, and even others catch the faint clicking. Spiraling into terror and isolation, he returns to the cliff and finally rams his car through a new concrete barrier to his death. Afterward, investigators discover tiny sliding weights hidden in his shoe heels, suggesting a possible trick behind the sounds, yet the lingering signs of Maria and the uncanny precision of the footsteps keep the story’s haunting power disturbingly unresolved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76644,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76644,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76644,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76644,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76645,520,'"Return to Earth by Willis Knapp Jones" is a science fiction short story written in the early 20th century. It follows a resurrected pilot who returns to his hometown with an alien guide, aiming to prove his interplanetary voyage, and probes the clash between advanced beings and a fear-driven, war-prone humanity.  Told by the alien Usru, the tale recounts how Henry Sanborn comes back to the small town he left eighteen years earlier, expecting glory for his achievement. Instead, he meets scorn: a former sweetheart flees, his wealthy friend Todd Van Horne spits on him for deserting wartime duty, and a cobbler denounces him as a coward. Hoping for validation, Henry appeals to the local asylum’s physician, Dr. Bender, explaining his anti-gravity ship inspired by the patient Menkowitz and insisting that Usru and the invisible craft are nearby. Skeptics fail to see the G-ray-hidden ship, mockery mounts, and Usru briefly reveals superior powers to drive home the truth. Concluding that Earth’s emotions and violence make contact dangerous, Usru immobilizes the situation, retrieves the terrified Henry—whose life Urcanus science restored after his fatal crash—and departs, resolving that their world will not communicate with humanity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76645,908,'Reading ease score: 75.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76645,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76645,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76645,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76646,520,'"The songs of Bilitis :  Translated from the Greek : A new rendering in English…." by Pierre Louÿs is a collection of lyric poetry written in the late 19th century. Framed as translations of ancient Greek verses by a sixth‑century woman named Bilitis, it weaves pastoral imagery, mythic invocations, and frankly erotic feeling. In intimate first‑person songs, Bilitis moves from a rustic girlhood in Pamphylia to Sapphic love on Lesbos and, later, a courtesan’s life in Cyprus, tracing desire, jealousy, ritual, and memory.  The opening of the work presents a mock-scholarly “Life of Bilitis” that situates her birth, travels, and supposed connections to Sappho, capped by a fanciful tale of her tomb inscribed with the poems. The first sequence, Bucolics in Pamphylia, offers vivid vignettes of rural chores, nymph worship, playful friendships, and a hesitant sexual awakening that turns to ardor with the shepherd Lykas. The next, Elegiacs at Mytilene, shifts to Lesbos, where Bilitis meets Psappha (Sappho) and enters a consuming relationship with Mnasidika, depicted through tender domestic scenes, jealousy, separation, and aching attempts at forgetfulness. The third part begins in Cyprus with hymns to Astarte, Bacchic revels, and the refined, commercialized arts of love among courtesans, before the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76646,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Songs_of_Bilitis',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76646,908,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76646,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76646,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76646,703);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76647,520,'"Thrilling incidents of the Indian war of 1862 : being a personal narrative of…" by Mrs. L. Eastlick is a first-person historical account written in the mid-19th century. It recounts a Minnesota settler’s ordeal during the Dakota War, focusing on the Lake Shetek attacks, her desperate flight, and the devastation visited on her family and neighbors. The work aims both to bear witness to what she saw and to solicit sympathy and support as she struggles to rebuild after the catastrophe.  The opening of the narrative sets out the author’s purpose and need, then follows her family’s westward move to Lake Shetek, early cordial contacts with nearby Dakota, and the sudden eruption of violence. As the settlers attempt to flee together, they are overtaken on the prairie; she is wounded, her husband is killed, and children and neighbors are slain or taken, while she hides and then wanders injured for days. She eventually reconnects with survivors, learns that her son Merton has carried the baby Johnny many miles, and, with the help of a passing mail carrier, reaches an abandoned farm where they hide until a small detachment rescues them and takes them to New Ulm. There she receives hospital care and aid from soldiers and townspeople. The excerpt closes with her efforts to obtain official passes and assistance from state authorities to continue eastward to friends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76647,908,'Reading ease score: 85.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76647,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76647,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76647,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76648,520,'"The infant moralist by Lady Helena Carnegie and Violet Jacob" is an illustrated collection of cautionary poems for children written in the early 20th century. The verses adopt a stern, didactic tone to teach manners, obedience, charity, and self-control, often through exaggerated consequences and darkly comic twists. It is essentially a book of moral instruction, using brief rhymed vignettes to contrast vice and virtue in domestic and village settings.  Across a sequence of short poems, a severe adult narrator addresses children who misbehave and those who do well. Cruelty, gluttony, envy, profanity, pranks, and disobedience are met with swift, sometimes disastrous outcomes—boys fall from towers after mischief, a credulous child runs off with a caravan and is lost to his family, a grimace is fixed forever by a change of wind, a planted mouse shocks an aunt into silence, and a vicious act of revenge nearly causes a drowning. By contrast, charity, politeness, courage, and thoughtful regard for parents and elders are praised, as when a girl brings food to the poor or a boy calmly saves his sister from a wasp. The settings and incidents are everyday—school treats, parlors, gardens, lanes—yet the consequences are dramatically amplified to imprint the lesson: heed guidance, curb impulses, respect others, and avoid violence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76648,908,'Reading ease score: 85.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76648,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76648,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76648,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76649,520,'"The autobiography of Calvin Coolidge" by Calvin Coolidge is an autobiography written in the early 20th century. It charts Coolidge’s journey from a rural Vermont upbringing through schooling, the law, and Massachusetts politics to the presidency, reflecting on character, public duty, and constitutional principles. Readers can expect a restrained, plainspoken account focused on work, self-discipline, and the practical mechanics of government.  The opening of this memoir depicts Coolidge’s Vermont roots: the geography of Plymouth Notch, his Puritan forebears, a childhood over a country store, and a father skilled in trade, farming, and local law enforcement. He recalls a tight-knit, frugal community, early lessons from town meetings and courts, seasonal farm labor, and simple recreations, alongside the formative loss of his mother (and later his sister). Schooling progresses from a district school to Black River Academy, where civics and classical studies take hold, and then to Amherst College, where history, mathematics, and especially Professor Garman’s philosophy shape his ethics—truth, duty, work, and service. After graduation he reads law in Northampton, is admitted to the bar, builds a practical practice, and enters local politics as councilman and city solicitor. He marries Grace Goodhue, starts a modest household and family, wins election to the Massachusetts House, and then becomes mayor of Northampton. By the end of this opening section he has moved into the state senate, begun to influence major committees, and is on the cusp of broader leadership. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76649,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Autobiography_of_Calvin_Coolidge',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76649,908,'Reading ease score: 67.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76649,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76649,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76649,694);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76650,520,'"The English works of Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, Volume 05 (of 11)" by Hobbes is a collection of philosophical writings written in the mid-19th century. This volume focuses on the classic debate over free will, determinism, and chance, centering on Hobbes’s exchange with Bishop John Bramhall. It contrasts Hobbes’s thoroughgoing necessity—grounded in divine will, causation, and foreknowledge—with Bramhall’s defense of a genuinely free human will, drawing on Scripture, scholastic theology, and practical reasoning. Readers can expect a sharp, source-rich controversy about moral responsibility, divine justice, and human action.  The opening of the volume sets the stage with Hobbes’s brief address to the reader and a clear statement of the dispute: both sides agree people are free to do what they will, but they split on whether one can be free to will what one wills. Hobbes outlines the “state of the question,” distinguishing freedom to act from freedom to will, and lists four sources of argument—authority (especially Scripture), practical consequences, divine attributes, and natural reason—before citing extensive biblical support for necessity and reconciling texts that seem to oppose it. He challenges scholastic “permission” doctrines, separates God’s revealed will from His decree, and argues that God’s foreknowledge entails necessity, while countering the charge that necessity destroys law, prudence, or piety. The text then turns polemical: Bramhall denounces necessity as destructive, defends traditional distinctions (liberty of exercise vs. contrariety), and accuses Hobbes of evasions, while Hobbes replies point by point, insisting on the difference between being free to act and being free to will, using examples (like dice throws) to argue that effects follow necessarily from causes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76650,908,'Reading ease score: 61.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76650,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76650,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76651,520,'"Happy days; carolings of Colorado, etc. by Samuel R. Brown is a collection of poetry and prose sketches written in the early 20th century. It is a regional, nature-centered book that celebrates Colorado’s landscapes and outdoor pastimes while offering homespun reflections on joy, morality, and everyday life.  The pieces range from exuberant odes to “Colorado Skies,” wild-wood rambles, and lazy days “Angling in the Platte,” to lively town portraits of Denver, Littleton, Englewood, and Manitou. Hunting and fishing scenes (including a vivid antelope hunt) mingle exhilaration with flashes of remorse; playful love lyrics feature summer girls and a “motor‑cycle girl,” while addresses and elegies speak to sailors, Whitman, and a lost friend. Populist protests against “King Mammon” and social graft sit beside meditations on sorrow, immortality, and the choice to live merrily and kindly. The closing sketches recall the author’s pioneer boyhood, Indian neighbors, and the transformation of the Front Range, framing the whole as a sunny, conversational portrait of Colorado life and a tonic for the “sad-faced tourist.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76651,908,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76652,520,'"Pompei" by Candido Augusto Vecchi is a work of historical fiction written in the late 19th century. It reconstructs everyday life, faith, and politics in ancient Pompeii through archaeological imagination and staged historical scenes. The narrative follows a range of Pompeians—priests, freedmen, magistrates, and farmers—moving from temples to forum to fields, blending vivid ritual detail with social critique and human drama.  The opening of the book sets out the author’s method of reviving the past, then unfolds a night scene in which a freedman consults an Etruscan diviner, exposing the tricks of augury and sacrifice. A grand public rite at Jupiter’s temple during the Social War shows panic, pageantry, and doubt, culminating in a frank exchange between two priests about the limits of the gods and the need for human courage, while Sulla’s campaigns brush past Pompeii, Isis’s oracle buoys the crowd, and civic revels turn raw and earthy; the section closes with the intimate death of a young Pompeian brought home from the battlefield. The narrative then shifts to the countryside, where Vestorio Tucca and his son visit the veteran Coecilio Casella and tour vineyards, orchards, and olive groves, yielding a compact, practical portrait of Campanian agriculture and a humane contrast to Cato’s austerity. It ends with a simple meal, a visit to the library, and a touching manumission ceremony that affirms character and community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76652,908,'Reading ease score: 56.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76652,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76652,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76653,520,'"The patriarch of one hundred years :  being reminiscences, historical and…." by Rev. J. B. Wakeley, D.D. is a historical and biographical memoir written in the late 19th century. It presents the life and ministry of Rev. Henry Boehm, using his extensive journals to portray early American Methodism, its pioneers, revivals, and circuits, culminating in his centennial celebrations. Readers can expect vivid portraits of figures like Bishop Francis Asbury and accounts of frontier evangelism, camp-meetings, and the growth of the Methodist Episcopal Church.  The opening of the volume lays out the project’s origin: Boehm explains in a preface that, urged by church leaders and aided by Wakeley, he shaped a massive journal into a narrative meant to preserve the spirit and facts of “primitive Methodism.” A table of contents promises a life told through circuits, conferences, and key personalities. The first chapters recount Boehm’s Swiss Mennonite ancestry, his father Martin’s conversion and eventual role with the United Brethren and Methodists, and Henry’s own upbringing, schooldays under a Hessian teacher, conversion in a mill loft, and the misstep of delaying church membership. He then sketches early preachers (notably Robert Strawbridge and the fiery Benjamin Abbott) and describes the building and influence of Boehm’s Chapel, where a revival led him to join the Church and become a class leader. Subsequent chapters narrate the General Conference of 1800 in Baltimore and the Philadelphia Conference at Duck Creek, both marked by powerful revivals and the election of Richard Whatcoat; the history of Barratt’s Chapel and Boehm’s vow of consecration during a bout of illness; and his early itinerant work on Dorchester and Annamessex Circuits, where sweeping awakenings among white and Black worshipers are punctuated by striking anecdotes (a preacher lost in the Cypress Swamp, a hawk dropping a fish for dinner). The extract closes as he moves to Kent Circuit, honors early lights like William Gill and John Smith, and visits the dying father of Shadrach Bostwick, pausing even to exhort a gathered roadside crowd when a house meeting is canceled. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76653,908,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76653,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76653,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76653,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76653,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76654,520,'"The new science of space speech by Vincent H. Gaddis" is a popular science essay written in the mid-20th century. It examines how humans might detect, interpret, and reply to messages from extraterrestrial intelligences, drawing on radio astronomy, mathematics, and studies of animal communication to outline practical pathways toward interspecies and interstellar understanding.  The essay frames the challenge as twofold: establishing contact with intelligent nonhuman beings in person and building a universal method for radio exchange across space. It surveys efforts from giant radio telescopes and the early SETI attempt Project Ozma to Dr. John C. Lilly’s “Project Dolphin,” where dolphins mimic human speech at high speed, suggesting a path to cross-species language. Gaddis then proposes mathematics and timing as common ground, highlighting systems like Lincos and the use of geometric concepts and pictorial symbols to build meaning step by step. He reviews puzzling historical signals and echo anomalies, including a 1924 Mars-listening effort and the idea of an automated probe that might respond to triggers, while warning of the huge time delays and risks of misinterpretation. The piece closes with the cultural stakes—drawing on psychological studies that foresee shock and change if superior civilizations are found—and argues for preparation, patience, and careful methods so that, when contact comes, humanity can answer wisely. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76654,908,'Reading ease score: 55.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76655,520,'The Daughter of Jorio: A Pastoral Tragedy by Gabriele D''Annunzio is a verse pastoral tragedy written in the early 20th century. Set among the archaic customs of the Abruzzi, it centers on the shepherd-artist Aligi and the persecuted Mila di Codra, whose encounter tests clan loyalties, religious rites, and the sanctity of the hearth. The work blends folk belief, ritual, and lyric speech to explore love, honor, and communal judgment within a harsh pastoral world.  The opening of the play frames its world through an introduction that situates the action in the Abruzzi, explains the folk rites (marriage, mourning, sanctuary at the hearth), and highlights the drama’s flexible, musical verse. Act I unfolds during Aligi’s espousal rites: his mother Candia and sisters conduct the traditional ceremony when a hunted woman rushes in to claim sanctuary. The reapers outside name her as Mila di Codra, “the daughter of Jorio,” revile her as an outcast, and demand she be handed over; the women waver, and Aligi at first tries to expel her. When Mila invokes the sacred fireplace and Aligi envisions her guardian angel weeping, he repents, places a blessed cross on the threshold, and sends the reapers away in peace, just as his father Lazaro returns wounded. At the start of Act II the scene shifts to Aligi’s mountain cave, where he carves an angel in walnut wood while Mila sits nearby and other mountain folk doze, signaling a new, quieter phase after the village tumult. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76655,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Daughter_of_Iorio',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76655,908,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76655,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76656,520,'The Minute Boys of the Wyoming Valley by James Otis is a historical adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set on the Pennsylvania frontier during the American Revolution, it follows sixteen-year-old Jonathan Ogden and a band of teenage “Minute Boys” who defend their valley against Tories and Mohawk allies gathering at Wintermoot’s Fort. The story blends siege craft, scouting, and rescue with themes of loyalty, courage, and makeshift soldiering.  The opening of the novel frames the real-world strife over Wyoming Valley’s land claims and fort-building before shifting to Jonathan’s first-person account. He organizes a twenty-two–boy company, mans Fort Jenkins with scant ammunition, and faces a tightening ring of Mohawk scouts while quelling a near-mutiny after a settler’s sister is seized. Elias Shendle scouts Wintermoot’s, Jonathan slips through the lines, and the veterans’ ally Simon Bartlett joins him; together they fight off a lone attacker and dash back under fire. A night assault follows: Indians feint at the river, scale the gate, and the boys beat them back in brutal hand-to-hand combat, suffering one death and several wounds. Taking advantage of the lull, Bartlett, Giles March, and the girl’s brother pull off a stealth rescue by river and snatch provisions from the lodges; refugees then reach the fort with supplies, and the defenders confer soberly, bracing for the larger Tory-Indian force rumored to be advancing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76656,908,'Reading ease score: 61.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76656,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76656,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76656,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76656,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76657,520,'"Nuppu :  Romaani" by Neil Munro is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a warm, humorous tale of small‑town Scottish life centering on the Dyce family as they unexpectedly take in an American‑born orphan, Lennox (“Nuppu”), and navigate kinship, manners, and a gentle Scotland‑versus‑America culture clash.  The beginning of the novel unfolds on a snow‑bright New Year’s morning in a lively Scottish town: the bell ringer Wully Oliver’s tipsy chimes set a festive tone as pipers, a booming drummer, and street sellers fill the streets. In the Dyce household, Bell Dyce and the spirited maid Kate bustle amid the holiday scents, while Daniel (“Hauska Dan”) jokes his way through the morning and leaves a mischievous slingshot gift for the American nephew they expect from Chicago; Alison (“Ailie”) arrives, and the siblings banter about the boy’s room and his future. A postcard from actor Molyneux announces the child is traveling north alone (“Pip, pip!”), prompting anxious, comic breakfast talk about American habits, Scottish schooling, and what to do with the newcomer. A hard knock interrupts: the child arrives early—and is a girl, not a boy. Calm and quick‑witted, she wins over the household dog at once, repeats the bell ringer’s catchphrases, and explains she helped ring the town bell and was seen off with sweets by “Jim” Molyneux. The opening closes with the family’s delighted astonishment as the poised young Lennox (“Nuppu”) begins telling how she got there. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76657,908,'Reading ease score: 39.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76657,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76657,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76657,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76658,520,'"My life in Sarawak" by Lady Margaret Brooke is a memoir and historical account written in the early 20th century. It chronicles the Ranee’s life beside the Brooke rulers, blending personal impressions with portraits of Sarawak’s peoples, landscapes, and the distinctive, native-inclusive governance her family pursued. Expect court ceremony, women’s society and crafts, river journeys, and encounters with piracy and headhunting reframed through everyday domestic and political life.  The opening of the memoir sets the scene with Sir Frank Swettenham’s preface praising Brooke rule and urging just stewardship of Malay peoples, then an introduction recounting how James Brooke became Rajah, suppressed piracy, and built councils and forts that involved Malays and Dyaks in government. The narrative then shifts to the author’s arrival: seasick stops en route, first sights and smells of the Sarawak River, a formal reception at the Astana, and her wish to meet the women who had stayed away from public ceremony. She hosts a landmark reception for Malay ladies, adopts local dress, learns weaving and sumptuous gold-thread embroidery from a Seripa, and sketches the country’s rivers, tribes, and waterbound life. Early tension follows: a Dyak raid on Sibu under Lintong (Mua-ari), the Rajah’s expedition up the Rejang, the author’s guarded river travels and stay in the fort, vivid riverine descriptions, and a comically tense false alarm at dawn—all establishing the mix of danger, etiquette, and cross-cultural intimacy that defines the beginning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76658,908,'Reading ease score: 68.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76658,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76658,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76658,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76658,664);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76659,520,'"The seventh shot :  A detective story" by Herman Landon is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. Set in Broadway’s backstage world, it follows volatile new star Alan Mortimer, producer Max Dukane, and ingénue Sybil Merivale as their show collides with the ousted leading lady Grace Templeton and the calculating Kitty Legaye. When anonymous threats and jealousies surface, detective Jim Barrison moves from a technical consultant on fingerprints to an uneasy guardian as danger seems to gather for opening night.  The opening of the novel traces a sweltering rehearsal season on the Rialto: Kitty befriends job-hunting Sybil over lunch, Mortimer (already the object of multiple entanglements) impulsively anoints her his new leading woman after Grace Templeton is fired, and Dukane cautiously agrees to test her. Rehearsals reveal Mortimer’s intoxicating charm and predatory will—he forces an onstage kiss during the “tag,” rattling Sybil and stoking Norman Crane’s jealousy—while a superstitious stage manager frets and an anonymous letter warns Mortimer of doom “on the opening night.” Barrison, brought in to coach a fingerprint scene, quietly reads the room: Grace’s smoldering fury, Kitty’s designs, Sybil’s fearful fascination, and Mortimer’s enraged response to the note; Grace later tries (and fails) to hire him to shadow Mortimer, and Tony Clay reports she has bought a revolver. On opening night, with the theater stifling and security tightened, Barrison spots Grace in a box dressed in black, watches her sit strangely calm as Mortimer makes his entrance, and senses the fuse has been lit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76659,908,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76660,520,'"The X Bar X boys at the round-up" by James Cody Ferris is a juvenile Western adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows teenage brothers Roy and Teddy Manley on the X Bar X ranch as they navigate round-up season, test their horsemanship, and face threats on the open range. Early signs point to trouble from suspicious “buyers” and possible rustling, alongside rodeo ambitions and classic Western hazards.  The opening of the novel finds Roy and Teddy riding fence, worrying over a mysterious rider and the inquisitive Lefton brothers, when a wolf chase turns into a desperate flight from a ravenous pack—ended only by a timely rescue from the Leftons and their partner, Mob Jamisson. Invited to the trio’s camp, Roy later sneaks back under a pretext and overhears talk of “cars,” an “eight mile” run, and hundreds of head—hinting at a scheme. A comic interlude follows at the neighboring 8 X 8 ranch, where Bug Eye’s runaway homemade mower nearly destroys a flower bed. Back home, a curt buyer named Peter Peterson demands a forfeit and insists the Manleys deliver six hundred head to Red Rock instead of the usual Eagles, which raises the brothers’ suspicions. Scouting Red Rock, they spot Peterson conferring with the Leftons before the men board a train, reinforcing the sense of collusion. Returning to the ranch, the boys launch rodeo practice as Teddy mounts an unbroken mustang, setting the stage for both competition and looming cattle trouble. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76660,908,'Reading ease score: 86.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76660,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76660,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76660,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76660,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76661,520,'"Zu stark für dies Leben :  Als Fortsetzungsroman im »Vorwärts« (1927)" by Iwan Heilbut is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a socially critical office-and-labor drama following the aging clerk Jakob Grahl as he struggles against humiliating management, looming layoffs, and the machinery of a big department store’s bureaucracy while his family is shaken by his wife Anna’s criminal trial. Key figures include the sympathetic colleague Uri, the harsh superiors Winter and Karst, and Grahl’s family—Hermann and Gertrud—who bear the strain at home.  The opening of the novel follows Grahl from a late evening at the office to a workers’ meeting resisting planned dismissals, then home to a tense household where his wife’s impending court case hangs over everything. The next morning he is late, publicly humiliated by the boss Winter, denied leave to attend Anna’s trial, and soon receives a dismissal note; that same day Anna is sentenced to prison. Grahl appeals to the staff council, which issues a protest; management retaliates by demoting him from accounts to revision, then to the package intake, while colleagues mock him and only Uri stands by him. At the labor court, testimony from former personnel chief Rottmann helps win a ruling that blocks his firing and insists the firm can reassign him instead. Karst then pressures him to resign and to give up his council seat; Grahl refuses. In response, management-aligned council members demand his resignation and finally resign en masse to force new elections, stripping him of protection and leaving him facing likely termination again as the section ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76661,908,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76661,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76661,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76662,520,'"Sämtliche Werke 20 : Aus dem Dunkel der Großstadt : Acht Novellen" by Dostoyevsky is a collection of novellas written in the mid to late 19th century. The volume gathers eight Petersburg-centered tales of urban alienation and moral struggle, spotlighting clerks, students, and other castaways as they battle conscience, poverty, and the pressures of a rapidly modernizing city.  The opening of the collection frames Dostoyevsky as the poet of the modern metropolis: an introductory essay contrasts the city’s feverish experimentation with the steadier life of the countryside and sets St. Petersburg as a tragic, artificial crucible of Russian destiny; a foreword then outlines the eight included works and explains the title choice. Immediately after, the first novella begins with the famous voice of an unnamed former civil servant in his “corner,” a self-lacerating, contradictory narrator who calls himself sick and spiteful. He recalls petty cruelties at his desk, admits that hyper-consciousness paralyzes action, and dissects the perverse “pleasure” found in humiliation, pain, and even toothache. He contrasts impulsive “men of action” with his own mouse-like inertia, invokes the “stone wall” of natural law, and launches a fierce attack on rational egoism and utopian schemes, insisting that humans will sometimes choose against their own interest simply to assert freedom. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76662,908,'Reading ease score: 79.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76662,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76662,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76662,650);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76663,520,'"Das Leben der Renée von Catte : Roman" by Elsa von Bonin is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a Prussian aristocratic world from country estate to Berlin court society, it follows the sensitive Renée von Catte from a lonely, willful childhood into her social debut, tracing her search for friendship, love, and a self she can live with under rigid expectations. Family strain with her authoritative father, fierce loyalty to her brother, and the dazzling, disquieting charm of her American sister-in-law Sarah shape the book’s emotional core.  The opening of the novel presents Renée as a child on a lakeside estate, mourning her dog Uncas, chafing at dull lessons, and longing for a true friend. She bonds with her cousin Felicitas (“Fly”), plays elaborate make-believe, rides with her father, and idolizes her brother Hannsbabo, whose secret love for a singer clashes with their father before he leaves for America. Growing older, Renée enters school, develops an intense, idealized attachment to the proud classmate Edel, then goes to a boarding pension where she wins the girls’ loyalty but meets the headmistress’s hostility while feeling Edel’s coolness. News arrives that Hannsbabo is engaged to the wealthy, alluring Sarah; Renée returns home, spars with her father over religious conformity, and is coached by her sister in social rules. In Berlin she is presented at court, dazzled by Sarah’s brilliance and freedom, and forms “good-friend” bonds with young officers like Schoenburg and Wachenhusen (and later Rodeck). At Sarah’s spectacular ball, amid royalty and glitter, Hannsbabo falters; in private he confesses to Renée a love that torments him, hinting at a hollow marriage beneath the shine. The section closes with social maneuvering at home, including the Landrat Horwitz’s evident courtship of Elisabeth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76663,908,'Reading ease score: 94.7 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76663,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76663,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76664,520,'Ballads of American bravery by Clinton Scollard is a collection of patriotic poems and ballads written in the early 20th century. It showcases acts of American heroism on land and sea, drawing from episodes in the Revolution, frontier wars, the War of 1812, Texas independence, the Mexican War, and the Civil War. Aimed at students of American history and general readers, it blends celebrated names with lesser-known figures to honor courage, sacrifice, and national memory.  The opening of the collection presents a prefatory note explaining the editor’s aim to gather largely historically verified poems of valor, with a few exceptions for breadth, followed by acknowledgments and a contents list signaling wide historical scope. The first section, “In Time of Strife,” begins with Revolutionary scenes (Paul Revere’s ride, Ethan Allen at Ticonderoga, Montgomery at Quebec), moves through early naval exploits and frontier heroics (Decatur burning the Philadelphia, privateers, swamp fighters), then to Texas and the Mexican War (the Alamo, San Jacinto, Monterey), and onward to pre–Civil War Kansas and Civil War vignettes from both sides (Bethel, Hampton Roads, Shiloh, New Orleans, Seven Pines). These ballads emphasize individual bravery—men and women, soldiers and sailors, even a drummer boy—told in stirring, narrative verse that frames history through memorable deeds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76664,908,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76664,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76664,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76665,520,'"In Barbary :  Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and the Sahara" by E. Alexander Powell is a travelogue and historical-cultural survey written in the early 20th century. It follows the author’s journeys through Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, and the Sahara, interweaving vivid travel writing with history, politics, and practical guidance to correct common Western misconceptions about Barbary. Expect close attention to landscapes, cities, and peoples (notably distinguishing Berbers from Arabs), alongside a critical-yet-appreciative view of French colonial administration.  The opening of the book sets out its mission: to dispel popular myths about North Africa’s peoples, climate, geography, and politics, and to present the whole of French North Africa—its history, resources, and travel conditions—in one volume; it also acknowledges extensive help from French officials while insisting on independent judgment. The narrative then shifts to the author’s “wander-thirst,” his map-prompted decision to go, and a detailed approach to routes and seasons, choosing to enter via Tunis. He describes departure from Marseilles, a brief, violent incident at Bizerta, the sea approach to Carthage (with a priest evoking its vanished glory), and a night arrival in Tunis that contrasts Europeanized boulevards with the preserved Medina. Rich, sensory tours of the souks follow—perfume-sellers, textiles, carpets, saddlery, chéchias, cobblers, and multi-tasking barbers—along with the Kasbah’s grim slave history, panoramic views, the Dar-el-Bey’s ceremonies of justice and blood-money, and the Bardo’s ornate, eclectic palaces, where European gaudiness meets Moorish elegance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76665,908,'Reading ease score: 54.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76665,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76665,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76665,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76666,520,'"On the face of the flood by Mary E. Ropes" is a short Christian adventure novella for young readers, written in the late 19th to early 20th century. Set in the Russian forests and riverways at spring flood, it follows an orphan’s raft journey that brings him into contact with thieves and would‑be rescuers, with a clear emphasis on Providence, honesty, and courage.  Sergey, mistreated by his drunken uncle Abram Kapoostin, finds a ruby ring engraved “Yevgen to Elena” and places it in safe hands before fleeing on a timber raft, the Swan, under the care of the kindly foreman Matvey’s friends. Kidnapped by Abram and taken to a forest band, he refuses to join them and is released on his promise not to betray them. The voyage brings dangers and rescues: rapids, fishing, and a night attack by a lynx that injures the skipper Ivan; a chance meeting with a lady who proves to be the ring’s owner; and the saving of Olga—Abram’s estranged wife—who is later reunited with her lost daughter. Warned of a timber thief, Issakoff, the crew are trapped by a ruse, but Sergey hides, frees his bound companions, and the Swan escapes. After delivering the raft, news comes that Abram has been arrested, and Olga’s brother Appolon, once among the bandits, repents and reforms. Returning home, Sergey is welcomed as a son by Matvey and Christina, and the story closes on its guiding thread: that duty can be done, and out of evil God brings good to those who trust Him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76666,908,'Reading ease score: 87.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76666,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76666,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76666,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76666,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76666,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76667,520,'"No royal road :  or, The thing that lies the nearest. A story for girls." by Burch is a moral coming‑of‑age novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative centers on Lilla, an orphan living with her grandmother, and Margie, a sturdy village girl, as both discover that true greatness is found in humble duties, patience, and Christian kindness. With guidance from a kindly clergyman and a gentle governess, the tale contrasts ambition and class with everyday service. It suits readers who enjoy heartfelt Victorian domestic fiction with a clear ethical thread.  The opening of the story introduces a picturesque lodge where Lilla is lovingly raised by Mrs. Eden, whose health is beginning to fail, and sets a reflective tone through scenes of spring, home routines, and a fleeting excitement over a runaway pony. A parallel thread presents Margie’s crowded, working‑class home, her Sunday solace in church, and a brief exchange with the clergyman about work, rest, and purpose. A stormy afternoon visit from Mr. Munro gives Lilla the book’s motto—“Do the work that lies the nearest”—spurring her to early rising, practical help, and renewed diligence, even as her grandmother decides to hire a maid. Lilla and Margie meet, grow shyly friendly, and their lives intertwine: Lilla studies intensely under Miss St. Ives while learning patience in twilight hours with her grandmother; Margie’s hopes to “get on” are tested by her brother’s illness and a cousin’s shallow advice. When Margie’s mother falls sick, Lilla quietly takes over the housework so Margie can care for her family and still receive her wages, deepening their bond. By year’s end, with Margie back, the theme sharpens as a sermon on greatness as service echoes the lesson both girls are learning through small, faithful acts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76667,908,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76667,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76667,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76667,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76668,520,'"Trial by water by Sewell Peaslee Wright" is a pulp adventure short story written in the late 1920s. The tale uses a hazardous river passage as a crucible to test love and loyalty, focusing on jealousy, courage, and betrayal.  Jean Baptiste Chabrier, a quiet northern bushman, guides a canoe through the Assin-nebah rapids with his wife, Charlotte, and their guest, Les Walters, a charming sawyer who has won Charlotte’s attention. Sensing her wavering heart, Jean deliberately wrecks the canoe at the safer end of the rapids to force a revealing crisis. In the churning water Charlotte turns to Les, who panics, strikes her away, and scrambles for shore, leaving her to drown. Jean, having seen enough—especially the cut on her cheek from Les’s ring—rescues her and brings her to land. The “trial by water” leaves a scar as a lasting reminder and delivers its verdict: Les’s cowardice is exposed, Charlotte’s misplaced faith is corrected, and Jean’s stern test decides the triangle’s fate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76668,908,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76668,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76668,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76668,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76668,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76669,520,'"Plan of Chicago" by Commercial Club of Chicago, Bennett, and Burnham is an urban planning report written in the early 20th century. It presents a comprehensive civic vision to guide Chicago’s growth by restructuring transportation and rail terminals, redesigning streets and boulevards, expanding parks and the lakefront, and creating a monumental civic center to improve health, efficiency, and beauty. Drawing on lessons from the World’s Columbian Exposition and international precedents, it seeks to turn rapid expansion into coordinated development.  The opening of the work explains the surge toward city life, the high costs of congestion, and the economy of a unified plan, tracing the project’s origins to the 1893 Exposition and early lakefront proposals. It recounts how the Commercial Club commissioned the effort, formed committees, hosted frequent reviews, and set goals for commerce, transportation, recreation, and dignified public groupings within an expandable framework. The next section surveys global precedents from Babylon, Egypt, Athens, and Rome through Paris under Louis XIV, Napoleon, and Haussmann, modern German and British reforms, and American efforts in Washington, Cleveland, Boston, St. Louis, San Francisco, and the Philippine cities of Manila and Baguio. It then turns to Chicago’s role as the Middle West’s metropolis, its historical foundations and explosive growth, and the pressing need to channel that growth into convenience, health, and civic coherence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76669,908,'Reading ease score: 54.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76669,674);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76669,702);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76670,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge is a popular-education periodical compiled in the early 19th century. This miscellany blends illustrated history, practical instruction, natural philosophy, moral reflection, poetry, and brief anecdotes for general readers. Its likely topic is the diffusion of “useful knowledge” to promote self-improvement, public intelligence, and informed conduct in everyday life.  This issue ranges widely. It opens with a historical sketch of Somerset House and its governmental and learned societies, then offers practical guidance for emigrants to British North America (routes, costs, agents, and work prospects). It explains the reversed seasons of the Antipodes, reflects on the early neglect of great inventors through Fulton’s steamboat story, and prints Locke’s maxims on lasting happiness and temperance. Short pieces advocate disciplined ambition and the social benefits of spreading knowledge. Natural history appears in a note on the mole and its habits; a weekly calendar explains Palm Sunday through Good Friday; and a major essay urges affordable home libraries and “itinerating” collections for villages. A moral tale, “The Woodman’s Memorial,” warns against quarrels; an economic report criticizes protectionist tariffs in Austrian Lombardy; and sea vignettes recount a drowning and a boy’s rescue. A poem on the firmament, anecdotes on punctuality (including Nelson), a humorous “ghost” story, and a brief praise of good temper round out the magazine’s mix of instruction, improvement, and agreeable entertainment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76670,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76670,908,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76670,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76671,520,'"Le Pape et l''antisémitisme :  Interview de Léon XIII by Séverine" is a journalistic interview and reportage written in the late 19th century. The piece probes the Vatican’s stance on antisemitism through a rare audience with Pope Leo XIII, blending on-the-ground observation with pointed questions. Its likely topic is the Pope’s view on antisemitism, the Church’s mission toward non-Christians, and the relationship between faith, politics, and social justice.  The text follows the reporter’s path into the Vatican, her vivid portrait of the Pope, and a carefully phrased dialogue about religion and race. Leo XIII insists that Christ shed his blood for all and that the Church must persuade, not persecute; he rejects the very notion of a “war of religion” and dismisses racial divisions as irrelevant before God, recalling how Popes protected Jews and how clergy aided the Roman ghetto. He warns against the tyranny of money, declares solidarity with the humble rather than the powerful, and affirms that the Church seeks souls, not political rule. He expresses affection for France, listens with amused candor to how various French factions view him, and disavows a cleric who urged Alsace-Lorrainers to forget the motherland. The audience closes with a blessing, leaving a portrait of a gentle yet firm spiritual leader who “does not approve” of hatred and stands for mercy and fraternity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76671,908,'Reading ease score: 67.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76672,520,'"A brief narrative of the life of Mrs. Adele M. Jewel (being deaf and dumb) by Jewel is an autobiographical memoir written in the late 19th century. It relates the lived experience of a deaf woman in America, combining personal history, travel notes, religious reflection, and a frank appeal for sympathy and support.  The narrative follows the author from a deaf childhood in Cincinnati, Detroit, and rural Michigan—marked by close friendships, a near-fatal encounter with a pet bear, and accidentally burning the family home—to early grief over her father’s and a friend’s deaths and a hard-won Christian faith. Struggling to learn in common schools, she discovers sign language through another deaf woman, studies at the Flint school for the deaf, and must withdraw after losing sight in one eye. She recounts travels to Niagara and through New York State, marveling at nature, public feats, and institutions serving deaf and blind children, and visits scattered family. Interwoven are notes of practical help from kind strangers and her own efforts to publish the booklet to support herself and her ailing mother. Later pages describe an unhappy marriage that leaves her with three small children (the eldest also deaf), her membership in a Baptist church, and life in Ann Arbor. The book closes as a modest, dignified appeal for readers’ understanding and assistance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76672,908,'Reading ease score: 77.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76672,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76673,520,'"The history of the South African forces in France" by John Buchan is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It chronicles South Africa’s official expeditionary contribution to World War I, centering on the South African Infantry Brigade and its attached services in France. The narrative blends strategic overview with unit-level detail across major battles and theatres, including the Somme, Arras, and Ypres, while also covering the Western Desert campaign in Egypt and the work of artillery, signals, transport, and medical units.  The opening of this history explains the author’s official commission, sources, and aim to tell a clear, authoritative record, then recounts how the brigade was raised: its four battalions (including the South African Scottish), leadership under Brigadier-General Henry Timson Lukin, supporting heavy artillery (re-numbered as R.G.A. siege batteries), signals, and medical services, and its training in England. Diverted to Egypt at the end of 1915, the force joins the Western Frontier operations against the Senussi, fighting at Halazin and then at Agagia, where coordinated infantry and yeomanry action captures Gaafer Pasha, before advancing on Sollum amid severe water shortages. The armoured cars’ dash under the Duke of Westminster smashes a retreating camp and then pulls off a dramatic long-range rescue of British sailors, effectively ending the immediate threat from the west. The brigade returns to Egypt, then sails for France, joins the 9th (Scottish) Division, learns trench warfare in Flanders, and moves to the Somme. A concise overview of the Somme’s purpose frames their first major test: holding newly won ground near Bernafay and aiding in the struggle for Trônes Wood, during which Lieutenant-Colonel F. A. Jones of the 4th Regiment is killed. On 14–15 July, they attack Longueval–Delville Wood; the South Africans seize most of Delville but face incessant shelling and counter-attacks, thin lines, and blocked communications, with notable bravery such as Private W. F. Faulds’s rescue under fire. The section closes as reinforcements are juggled and a renewed push is ordered for the morning of 17 July. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76673,908,'Reading ease score: 70.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76673,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76673,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76674,520,'"Ihmisen osa :  Runoja by Väinö Kolkkala" is a collection of lyric poetry written in the early 20th century. The book contemplates the human lot through Finnish landscapes and seasons, weaving themes of love and loss, work and faith, home and exile, and the passing of time.  The poems move from spring’s quickening hope to winter’s hush and resignation, following a solitary voice that weighs safety against striving, prays for deliverance, and dreams of slipping away before all hope is spent. The middle section turns to the countryside: an old homestead, the dignity and fatigue of labor, the ache of leaving and the pull of return, a tender reunion with a gray-haired mother, and hymns that bring quiet grace to grief. The final section enters the woods: austere autumn scenes, a poor hut at the marsh’s edge, meditative forest songs that end in storm and snow, and an elegy for a lost beloved and for every life that fades “from dust to dust.” Throughout, nature mirrors inner weather, and the voice blends yearning, humility, and a sober, consoling faith. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76674,908,'Reading ease score: 58.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76674,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76675,520,'"Paikanvälitystoimistossa :  1:ssä näytöksessä by Otto Tiuppa" is a Finnish one-act social drama written in the early 20th century. The play satirizes urban job-placement offices, exposing how greedy middlemen and predatory gentlemen exploit impoverished servant girls and unemployed workers.  In a city placement agency, the cynical manager Hirviö boasts about profit while squeezing fees from desperate applicants. He pressures the rural maid Elsa into serving him and tries to supply the rich rake Vintiö with a young country girl, sending others into dubious posts. Elsa unexpectedly reunites with her childhood sweetheart, the workman Mikko, who demands his papers and refund. When Vintiö discovers Hirviö’s lies, he threatens scandal; Elsa denounces both men and quits. Defrauded women surge back to reclaim their money, and amid Mikko’s pressure and public outrage, the cornered agent crumbles as the curtain falls. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76675,908,'Reading ease score: 64.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76675,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76676,520,'"King and commonwealth : A history of Charles I. and the great rebellion" by B. Meriton Cordery and J. Surtees Phillpotts is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It examines the constitutional and religious conflicts that escalated from the late Tudor settlement through James I to the crisis under Charles I, culminating in civil war. The focus is on how monarchic prerogative collided with parliamentary rights, the law courts, and church governance, with figures like Buckingham and measures such as the Petition of Right at the fore.  The opening of the work sets out the English constitutional framework—legislative, executive, and judicial—and shows how English liberties (consent to taxation, jury trial, and due process) coexisted uneasily with royal prerogatives, pliant judges, and arbitrary courts like Star Chamber and High Commission. It contrasts Elizabeth’s cautious use of power with growing religious tensions: Puritans attacking “popish” ceremonies, Presbyterians demanding church government by assemblies, and sectarians pressing for liberty of conscience, while Elizabeth’s Protestant foreign policy (and the Armada’s defeat) keeps popular support. Under James I, the narrative highlights illegal impositions, coercive ecclesiastical procedure, arbitrary imprisonments (including Arabella Stuart), corruption illustrated by the Eliot–Nutt pirate case, the persecution of Puritans, and James’s wavering response to the Thirty Years’ War; Parliament asserts free speech in 1621 only to have its protest erased. The section then turns to Charles I’s accession: Buckingham’s dominance, Parliament’s one-year grant of tonnage and poundage, anger over English ships lent against the Huguenots, the failed Cadiz expedition, and the Commons’ impeachment of Buckingham, which Charles thwarts by arresting managers and dissolving Parliament. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76676,908,'Reading ease score: 63.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76676,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76676,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76676,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76676,664);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76677,520,'"The Girl from Scotland Yard" by Edgar Wallace is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on a poised young investigator, Leslie Maughan, who probes a tangle of high-society secrets involving Lady Raytham, her bullying confidante Princess Anita Bellini, and a newly freed ex-convict, Peter Dawlish. A menacing butler, a suspicious cash withdrawal, and a murder tied to an emerald necklace pull police and aristocrats into the same web.  The opening of the novel shows Lady Raytham on edge as friends visit and talk turns to Peter Dawlish, recently released after a notorious forgery case. Leslie Maughan arrives from Scotland Yard to question Lady Raytham about a large, sudden withdrawal, rattling her further. That night Leslie encounters Peter on the Embankment, challenges his self-pity, and helps him toward a fresh start; he is soon assaulted by three small, silent attackers but survives and finds shabby lodgings. Meanwhile Druze, the butler, behaves erratically; later, Leslie and Chief Inspector Coldwell come upon Druze’s corpse on Barnes Common, shot and clutching a square emerald. Leslie follows a trail of searched belongings (passport, New York ticket, a stuffed wallet) and bare footprints, then confronts Lady Raytham, whose emerald chain is somehow intact despite a matching pendant found in the dead man’s hand. Pressed about her movements, Lady Raytham admits she discovered the body and collapses when Peter’s name is mentioned, setting the core mystery and suspects in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76677,908,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76678,520,'"Storia della città di Roma nel medio evo, vol. 2/8 : dal secolo V al XVI" by Ferdinando Gregorovius is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It traces Rome’s transformation in the early Middle Ages, from the collapse of the ancient civic order to the ascendancy of the papacy, the spread of monasticism, and the city’s struggles between Byzantine authority and Lombard pressure. Figures such as Benedict of Nursia and Gregory the Great exemplify how religious institutions replaced imperial structures and reshaped urban life. Expect a richly detailed political, ecclesiastical, and urban narrative rather than character-driven storytelling.  The opening of this volume paints a stark tableau of a ruined Rome—temples crumbling, forums silent, baths stripped—while the Church rises as the city’s only vigilant organizer and protector behind Aurelian’s walls. It recounts Benedict’s retreat to Subiaco, the founding of Monte Cassino atop a former pagan site, the crafting of his Rule, and the swift spread of monastic life (from Cassiodorus’s Vivarium to Roman convents fostered by patrician women), culminating in Benedictines sheltered at the Lateran after the Lombards raze Monte Cassino. The narrative then follows the Lombard advance, the embattled pontificates of Benedict I and Pelagius II, and appeals to Constantinople, with Gregory dispatched as apocrisiarius. Flood and plague ravage the city; Pelagius dies, and the rebuilding of San Lorenzo marks the era’s piety amid disaster. Gregory’s election ushers in penitential processions and the legend of the archangel sheathing his sword atop Hadrian’s mausoleum to end the pestilence. Finally, his first sermons read like a funeral oration over Rome as Agilulf and Ariulf press the siege, while he buys off the enemy, clashes diplomatically with the exarch and emperor, and the text sketches the fragile civic framework—prefect, magister militum, and the near-silence surrounding a vanished Senate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76678,908,'Reading ease score: 39.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76678,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76678,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76678,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76679,520,'"Kannaksen lumous :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Kersti Bergroth is a one-act play written in the early 20th century. It explores a young woman’s choice in love against the backdrop of the Karelian Isthmus, setting material ambition and strict “oorninki” (orderly efficiency) against the region’s lyrical, unhurried charm.  In a cozy farmhouse, Ulla’s father awaits the wealthy landowner Suvonen, who arrives bragging about his big farm, car, and new piglets, and urges an immediate dash to the parsonage for the banns. Ulla hesitates at this crass haste, while the modest neighbor Pentti—gentle, musical, and poor—embodies the local spirit she secretly cherishes. When Suvonen insults her and storms off, Ulla first panics but then recognizes that she values warmth and poetry over money. Despite the father’s fury at losing a rich match, Ulla declares she will marry Pentti; after grumbling, the father relents. The play closes with the promise that Ulla and her father will teach Pentti “oorninki,” while Pentti brings joy and the Kannas’s enchantment into their home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76679,908,'Reading ease score: 63.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76679,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76679,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76680,520,'"Kertomuksia Etelä-Pohjanmaalta" by Matti Rinta is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. Set among farmers and laborers in South Ostrobothnia, it portrays village life with its celebrations, temptations, and communal pressures. Early tales follow figures like Tokkalan Samppo, the drink-prone Kaisan-Antti, and the striving Mäkituvan couple Hemppa and Maija, using their choices to explore pride, alcohol, and social standing. The voice mixes lively incident with clear moral realism.  The opening of the collection first tells how Samppo buys showy boots, hosts a boisterous “harjakaiset,” and, amid drunken card play and a brawl on the village road, is fatally stabbed by Antti, who confesses and is sent away—briefly sobering the village before old habits return. It then follows Hemppa and Maija as they sell their cow and run up credit to attend a distant niece’s wedding, trying to look prosperous; Hemppa drinks, squanders money, suffers humiliation at an inn, and on the ride home overturns the cart, shattering his leg and pushing the family into lasting poverty and poor relief. At the start of the next story, Pyhänä, a young man, Jussi, wakes on a clear Sunday and lies listening to the farm, reluctant to obey his father and longing for freedom, setting up tensions of youth, duty, and rural routine. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76680,908,'Reading ease score: 50.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76680,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76681,520,'"Liliecrona''s home" by Selma Lagerlöf is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in rural Värmland, it likely explores village life, the parsonage at Lövdala, and the tensions within a newly blended household. The story centers on the spirited young Eleonora (“Little-Maid” or Nora), the gentle pastor’s daughter Maia Lisa, the Pastor, and his capable but formidable new wife, mixing folklore, domestic drama, and nature’s force.  The opening of the novel begins with a ferocious Christmas storm that upends the district and threatens to thwart Little-Maid’s longed-for journey to a family feast. Resourceful and stubborn, she ultimately sails across the ice on makeshift pine “sleds” with her younger brother, catching the eye of the Svartsjö Pastor’s new wife, who promptly takes her into service at Lövdala. There, Nora wakes to a kitchen full of spinning wheels, witnesses the stepmother’s harsh treatment of Maia Lisa and the servants’ quiet resistance, and hears Maia Lisa’s poetic lesson about the vanished “Black Lake” that shaped the valley. In night-time confidences, Maia Lisa retells her family’s recent upheaval as a Snow-White parable: how the austere, competent Mamsell Vabitz entered as housekeeper, married the Pastor, and imposed strict order—illustrated by vivid household episodes (a mischievous goat, guarded orchards, and sold apples)—leaving Maia Lisa struggling to keep her father’s affection and the home’s old warmth alive. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76681,908,'Reading ease score: 85.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76681,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76682,520,'The censorship of the Church of Rome and its influence upon the production and… by George Haven Putnam is a historical study written in the early 20th century. It examines how the Roman Catholic Church’s Index, Inquisition, and related decrees shaped what could be printed, sold, and read, and contrasts these with Protestant and state censorship. The work focuses on the practical machinery of prohibition and expurgation and its consequences for theology, scholarship, and the book trade.  The opening of this study maps the territory: first, it surveys seventeenth- and early eighteenth‑century theological controversies in France, the Netherlands, England, and Germany, showing how Protestant writers and even specific “propositions” were condemned through the Index. It then outlines how Scripture was controlled—tracing early printing and Erasmus’s editions, national cases in France, the Low Countries, Spain, and England, the banning of vernacular Bibles, occasional relaxations (1757), and later renewed restrictions (1836). Next, it reviews censorship around the monastic orders: inter‑order quarrels suppressed; extensive debate over Jesuit casuistry and the doctrine of grace (Molina vs. Bañez); the Dominicans’ dominance in censorship and the Reuchlin affair; rules against confession by letter; and disputes between secular clergy and regulars. Finally, it explains the Roman Index under Benedict XIV (1758): its rules, the new reliance on “general decrees” that condemned whole classes of books, examples of notable inclusions and omissions, and the persistent bibliographical and practical limits of the Index system itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76682,908,'Reading ease score: 54.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76682,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76682,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76682,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76682,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76682,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76683,520,'"A summer journey to Brazil" by Alice R. Humphrey is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. It follows an American traveler from Europe across the South Atlantic to Brazil, blending vivid scenes of ports and landscapes with sharp observations on social customs, public health, missionary work, and the booming coffee trade. The tone is practical and curious, often contrasting British, American, and Brazilian ways, and attentive to Brazil’s shift from empire to republic. Readers interested in ocean travel, Brazilian cities, and cultural commentary will find accessible sketches and informed context.  The opening of the book traces the voyage from New York via Southampton and Lisbon into tropical seas, detailing shipboard routines, mixed nationalities, equator “sports,” and contrasting Sunday services before the first Brazilian landfall at Pernambuco. Short stops at Bahia and then the dramatic entrance to Rio de Janeiro lead to brisk portraits of the harbor, city institutions (including the Y.M.C.A. and botanical garden), and the cooler mountain retreat of Petropolis with its diplomatic set and Protestant schools. Moving south, the narrative centers on Santos and the seaside resort of Guarujá—coffee-laden docks, memories of yellow fever, and intimate snapshots of Brazilian family life—then contrasts British and U.S. consular practice through telling anecdotes. It culminates, in this portion, with São Paulo’s ascent by cable railway, the city’s mix of grime and modernization, the pivotal role of Mackenzie College and “American schools” in education reform, glimpses of vast coffee plantations, and the start of the homeward passage via Bahia and Pernambuco, dotted with sea life and Caribbean waypoints. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76683,908,'Reading ease score: 66.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76683,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76683,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76684,520,'"New lives for old" by Frederick Orin Bartlett is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a city-bred narrator, Billy Carleton, and his wife Ruth as they buy a neglected New England farm and set out to restore both their homestead and the spirit of the surrounding town. The story contrasts immigrant enterprise with native stagnation and moves toward a community‑wide effort to revive local agriculture and pride.  The opening of the novel shows Billy and Ruth searching the countryside, joyfully choosing a rundown, centuries-old farmhouse and fifty acres, and fixing it up with local labor that proves frustratingly idle. Billy contrasts these neighbors—Seth, Jim, and Josh—with an industrious Italian family led by Tony and the prosperous farmer Giuseppe Dardoni, whose well-run “estate” uses every acre wisely. A cheerful housewarming introduces the townsfolk, while a shockingly high store bill and a candid talk with the storekeeper, Moulton, reveal why the village struggles: poor production, heavy credit, and dependence on patent medicines. After seeing Dardoni’s success and loaning money to a neighbor trapped by debt, Billy resolves to “wake up” the town, sparring with the cautious minister and then launching a practical plan: a broad civic club, the Pioneers, funded with prize money to reward real results in fields, orchards, and homes—culminating in a rousing first meeting that packs the hall. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76684,908,'Reading ease score: 78.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76684,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76684,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76685,520,'The Sign of the Seven Sins by William Le Queux is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a romantic-sensation mystery set on the Riviera, where Monte Carlo’s glitter conceals a web of crime, secrets, and temptation. Narrated by the young American-Italian Carmela Rosselli, the story entwines her travels with her worldly friend Ulrica Yorke, a sudden murder, an enigmatic millionaire, and a masked figure called “The Owl,” hinting that love, money, and danger will collide.  The opening of the novel follows Carmela from Washington to London, Paris, and finally Nice, where she and Ulrica fall into the Monte Carlo orbit with two American acquaintances, Gerald Keppel and Reginald Thorne. After a lucky afternoon at roulette and a glittering dinner at Ciro’s—during which Carmela glimpses her former lover Ernest Cameron with another woman—Reggie wins a fortune, steps away to change his notes, and is later found dead in the women’s hotel sitting-room, the cash gone and the cause unclear. The police inquiry yields nothing but suspicion and press sniping, while Carmela and Ulrica draw closer to Gerald’s austere, eccentric father, the millionaire Benjamin Keppel, who secretly turns ivory and proposes a yacht cruise. As Carnival peaks, a masked “Owl” dances with Carmela and seeks a private audience, declaring he knows the truth about Reggie’s death and insisting robbery was not the motive. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76685,908,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76686,520,'"Hirttonuora eli Asarias Pöllänen leskimiehenä" by Martti Wuori is a three-act stage comedy written in the early 20th century. It lampoons small-village matchmaking and moral posturing as a young widower, Asarias Pöllänen, becomes the target of two determined spinsters, Sanna Tossavainen and Santra Saurénska, while his crafty friend Ville Vilkki and the blunt Reverend Tobias Saxbäck try to restore order. Set in late 19th-century Savo, the play blends grief and farce into a brisk tussle over love, reputation, and peace of mind.  At the start of the play, Asarias sits in his farmhouse sunk in grief for his wife and newborn, even toying with the noose, as Ville tries to console him and fend off suitors. Sanna bursts in with flirtation and domestic zeal, Santra follows with pious hymns and “comfort,” and their rivalry erupts in barbs, boasting, and competitive singing while Ville plots to take both to the parsonage to end the siege. The action shifts to the rectory, where the amused but stern rovasti hears Sanna and Santra in turn, rebukes them for vanity, slander, and unseemly zeal, and confirms that Asarias has no intent to remarry. Sanna storms out threatening lawsuits; Santra pleads to keep visiting to sing but is told to leave the man in peace. The opening thus sets up a comic triangle (plus a wily go-between) and lands the conflict under clerical scrutiny, with the pastor sending each woman away and the men escorting them home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76686,908,'Reading ease score: 64.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76686,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76686,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76687,520,'"Surutar :  Romaani" by Hermann Sudermann is a novel written in the late 19th century. It likely follows the hard upbringing of Paul Meyhöfer, born as his family loses their estate, with the figure of “Lady Care” casting a lifelong shadow over him. Around him stand his sorrow-worn mother Elisabet, his bitter, prideful father Max, and his compassionate godmother Helena Douglas from the nearby manor, with the “white house” as a symbol of lost security and longing.  The opening of Surutar :  Romaani shows Paul’s birth amid foreclosure, his mother’s quiet fortitude, and his father’s rage and drink-fueled despair. The new owner’s wife, Helena Douglas, gently intervenes, becomes Paul’s godmother, and briefly shelters the family, though pride forces a move to a shabby farm. We see Paul’s frail early years, his mother’s tale of the gray “Surutar,” and his timid schooling and bullying. Haunted by the distant “white house,” he finally visits it with his mother, meeting the kind Douglas family and forming a shy bond with their daughter, even as small illusions (like the humble sundial) deflate his fantasies. Back home, conflict flares; the father condemns the visit but accepts the offered money. Time skips forward to a portrait of Paul as a quiet, dutiful boy who cares for his twin sisters, works slowly and precisely, and matures early under poverty and fear, while his elder brothers advance at school and he does not. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76687,908,'Reading ease score: 42.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76687,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76687,651);