insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (3091,520,'"The Giant Raft" by Jules Verne is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story is set in South America and centers on the Amazon River, following the Garral family and those around them as they prepare for a remarkable journey down the river. Likely combining adventure and intrigue, the book introduces memorable characters such as Joam Garral, his family, and a shadowy adventurer named Torres, while highlighting elements of mystery, familial bonds, and the wonders of the natural landscape.  The opening of the novel introduces Torres, a cunning and morally ambiguous wanderer who possesses a cryptic document, the key to his personal fortune and a potential threat to another man''s life. After losing, then regaining, this precious item during a confrontation with a mischievous monkey, Torres has a chance encounter with the Garral family’s son, Benito, and his friend Manoel, setting the stage for future conflict. The narrative then shifts to provide the backstory of Joam Garral and his prosperous Amazonian estate, delving into his family’s history and their preparations for an ambitious descent down the river to the city of Belem. Family relationships, a budding romance, and details about the Amazon and its surrounding society serve as a vivid introduction to the journey and challenges that lie ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (3091,908,'Reading ease score: 68.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (3091,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (3091,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (2291,520,'"David Elginbrod" by George MacDonald is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story portrays rural Scottish life and centers around the Elginbrod family—David, his wife Janet, and their daughter Margaret—and their interactions with Hugh Sutherland, a young tutor recently come to the area. The book explores themes of faith, class, education, and the meeting of simple goodness with intellectual and spiritual questioning. Through its focus on these characters, it raises questions of morality, knowledge, and the inner workings of family and community.  The opening of the novel introduces the Elginbrod household, painting a vivid picture of their devout, humble, and loving family, set against a quiet Scottish landscape. Margaret, wandering the fir-wood at dawn, is quickly established as sensitive and quietly intelligent, her nature at odds with her mother''s practical sternness. The new tutor, Hugh Sutherland, becomes entwined with the family when he lends Margaret a volume of poetry, drawing both motherly suspicion and paternal approval. As Hugh settles into his post with the laird''s sons and grows dissatisfied with the intellectual company at the big house, he finds friendship and inspiration in the Elginbrod cottage. Early chapters detail the intellectual and spiritual exchanges between Hugh, David, and Margaret, as well as the social tensions that arise when Hugh’s frequent visits create gossip and disapproval from the laird’s wife. The narrative begins to blend gentle romance, philosophical dialogue, and portrayals of everyday rural life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (2291,908,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (2291,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (2291,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (66089,520,'"Balancing and Shoeing Trotting and Pacing Horses" by William J. Moore is a practical treatise written in the early 20th century. This book focuses on the specialized techniques of balancing and shoeing trotting and pacing horses, especially to optimize their gait, prevent injuries, and enhance their performance in harness racing. It is aimed primarily at horsemen, farriers, trainers, and anyone interested in the care and conditioning of light-harness horses.  The opening of the book starts with an introduction from W.R. Allen praising Moore’s considerable, lifelong experience as a professional horse shoer, particularly his work at the Allen Farm in Massachusetts, a well-known nursery for racing horses. The content then launches into a detailed, practical discussion of the core principles of horse foot care, beginning with the importance of maintaining proper hoof condition in foals and the consequences of neglect. Moore describes numerous common gait faults in trotting and pacing horses, such as knee hitting, paddling, forging, and scalping, and offers step-by-step guidance for shoeing and foot preparation to correct each issue. The early chapters also provide sample case studies and specific shoeing recommendations, establishing the book as an accessible, experience-based manual for improving the movement and soundness of performance horses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (66089,908,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (66089,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (66089,680);
