insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74678,520,'"Unter Wilden am Amazonas" by Charles W. Domville-Fife is an adventurous account written in the early 20th century. This work recounts the author''s explorations and experiences among native tribes of the Amazon, including headhunters and cannibals. The book likely delves into the rich tapestry of the Amazon rainforest, its indigenous peoples, and the challenges and marvels encountered in such a wild and largely uncharted region.  The opening of the book sets the stage for Domville-Fife’s expedition by detailing the historical context of the Amazon''s discovery by Europeans and the romanticized myths that emerged about its land and peoples. It introduces the various risks and perils faced by explorers, including hostile tribes, the harshness of the environment, and the allure of hidden treasures. The narrative quickly transitions into Domville-Fife''s personal journey, emphasizing his preparations and motivation to venture into the depths of the Amazon, highlighting the stark contrast between the civilization he departs from and the untamed wilderness he seeks to explore. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74678,500,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74678,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74678,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74679,520,'"In het groothertogdom Luxemburg: De aarde en haar volken, 1916" by Sixemonts is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book discusses the rich history, geography, and cultural significance of Luxembourg, exploring its ties with neighboring nations, particularly France and Germany, and its historical role as a strategic buffer state. The narrative reflects on the land''s landscape, folklore, and the lives of its people, painting a vivid picture of a small yet historically complex nation.  The book delves into various aspects of Luxembourg''s past and present, starting from its medieval origins and relationships with powerful figures, like Jan the Blind, to its status during conflicts between France and Germany. It highlights the country’s picturesque landscapes and historical ruins, notably the castles that symbolize its noble past. The author recounts the legacy of prominent literary figures such as Victor Hugo, who found inspiration in Luxembourg''s natural beauty. Through anecdotes and historical context, the text emphasizes Luxembourg''s unique character, the challenges of maintaining its neutrality and independence, and the cultural identity of the Luxembourgers as a distinct group amid larger European influences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74679,500,'Reading ease score: 58.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74679,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74679,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74680,520,'"Presidential Addresses and State Papers, Volume 2" by Theodore Roosevelt is a collection of political speeches and writings delivered during the presidency of Roosevelt in the early 20th century. The work encompasses his addresses from December 3, 1901, to January 4, 1904, and serves as a reflection of the principles and policies he championed during this period. The topics range from the importance of a strong navy to the responsibilities of citizenship and the moral obligations that accompany education.  The beginning of the volume features dedications of notable monuments, such as the Navy Memorial in San Francisco, where Roosevelt emphasized the significance of military preparedness. He called for ongoing investment in the navy to ensure national security, highlighting the principle that successful military campaigns rely heavily on prior preparation. Roosevelt also addressed audiences at the University of California, stressing the critical relationship between education and civic duty, urging graduates to be responsible citizens. His rhetorical style combines a call to action with a reflection on the nation’s history, utilizing personal anecdotes to illustrate broader themes of duty, citizenship, and national pride. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74680,500,'Reading ease score: 44.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74680,468);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74680,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74681,520,'"Presidential Addresses and State Papers, Volume 3 (of 7)" by Theodore Roosevelt is a collection of political speeches and writings authored in the early 20th century. This volume focuses on key addresses delivered by Roosevelt between April 1904 and May 1905, covering a wide array of subjects relevant to his presidential administration. The likely topic of this work centers around Roosevelt''s observations on governance, public morality, and the responsibilities of citizenship, emphasizing the importance of character and self-restraint in maintaining democracy.  The opening of this collection features Roosevelt''s remarks made during a dinner for the Periodical Publishers’ Association, where he emphasizes the crucial role of media in shaping public thought and the need for responsible communication. He warns that true freedom and liberty must be accompanied by self-restraint and a high moral standard among citizens. The subsequent addresses, such as his speech at the prize day exercises at Groton School, further illustrate his belief in personal accountability, the importance of ethics in education, and the need for diligence and effort in both youth and adulthood. Roosevelt combines his thoughts on citizenship, character, and the role of government, laying the foundation for his vision of a strong and just society. This introductory portion sets the stage for a deeper exploration of his values and policies during a pivotal time in American history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74681,500,'Reading ease score: 47.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74681,468);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74681,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74682,520,'"The Life of the Emperor Francis Joseph" by Francis Henry Gribble is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the life and reign of Emperor Francis Joseph I of Austria, focusing on the intricate interplay between his personal experiences and the broader political landscape of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Gribble delves into the challenges faced by Francis Joseph amidst a backdrop of social upheaval, nationalistic movements, and the decline of imperial authority.  The opening of the biography sets the stage by discussing the collapse of the Holy Roman Empire and the subsequent challenges that emerged in the Austrian Empire. Gribble outlines that the ideas of nationality and liberalism were gaining traction, creating a tumultuous environment that Francis Joseph would navigate upon ascending the throne. The narrative highlights the contrast between the Emperor''s youthful optimism and the grim realities of governing a diverse empire characterized by tension and conflict. It paints a picture of a ruler whose reign began amid revolutionary fervor, setting the tone for the complex and often precarious political landscape he would face throughout his life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74682,500,'Reading ease score: 59.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74682,449);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74682,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74683,520,'"A Dangerous Friend; or, Tom''s Three Months in London" by Emma Leslie is a novel written during the late 19th century. The story centers around a fourteen-year-old boy named Tom, who leaves his rural life to seek work and opportunity in London, motivated by a letter from his Uncle George, who hopes to help Tom find a better life than that of a village blacksmith''s son. The narrative unfolds themes of youth, ambition, and the perils of urban life, as Tom navigates new friendships and the temptations that come with them.  The opening of the novel introduces Tom as he excitedly rushes home to share the news of his impending move to London. The anticipation is palpable within his family, especially from his mother, who sees this as a significant opportunity for Tom''s future. As Tom prepares for his journey, the dynamics among his siblings reveal undertones of familial love mixed with jealousy and rivalry, particularly regarding his brother Dick. Upon arriving in London, Tom is initially entranced by the bustling city but quickly finds himself grappling with the challenges that come with it, including peer pressure and the risks of poor choices as he befriends dubious characters. The seeds of conflict and moral dilemmas are planted early on, setting the stage for Tom''s journey through the complexities of growing up in a rapidly changing environment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74683,500,'Reading ease score: 82.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74683,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74683,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74684,520,'"Landesverein Sächsischer Heimatschutz — Mitteilungen Band XV, Heft 1-2" is a collection of scholarly articles written in the early 20th century. The publication focuses on topics related to homeland protection, folklore, and monument preservation, reflecting a deep sense of regional identity and historical awareness. Articles cover various subjects, including the significance of place names, natural monuments, and the state of rural life in the Saxon countryside.  The opening of this publication introduces the format and editorial notes regarding transcription conventions from an original text set in Fraktur typeface. Following this, a letter to the members establishes the significance of the current issue, highlighting the inclusion of supplementary material on architectural consultation, which the editors believe will enrich the association''s publications. The initial article titled "Bodentreue" reflects on the connection between the Saxon people and their homeland, emphasizing their struggles, resilience, and steadfastness in the face of historical challenges, specifically focusing on the connection to the land and cultural heritage of the Erzgebirge region. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74684,500,'Reading ease score: 70.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74684,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74684,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74685,520,'"Kaunis päivä : ynnämä muita kertomuksia" by Herman Bang is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The narrative appears to revolve around a variety of characters in intimate and poignant settings, exploring themes of love, loss, and the human condition. The opening portions focus specifically on a pastor named Skeel and his interactions with his wife and community, revealing insights into their lives and the challenges they face.  At the start of this collection, we meet Pastor Skeel, who is depicted as a deaf and introspective man navigating his duties within a rural setting. He struggles with his hearing loss and the emotional distance that it has created in his relationship with his wife. Their days are filled with quiet routines, underscored by gentle humor and tender exchanges, as they reminisce about their past and reflect on their shared memories. The narrative reveals their deep bond, yet also hints at the isolation brought by Skeel''s condition. The story sets a contemplative tone as it introduces the complexities of their love in the context of societal expectations and personal struggles, engaging readers with its lyrical prose and emotional depth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74685,500,'Reading ease score: 51.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74685,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74685,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74686,520,'"Rovine" by Giovanni Faldella is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story centers on a young boy named Pinotto who has just achieved the second highest score at his school but finds that his family''s attention is entirely devoted to their sick dog, Glafir. This leads Pinotto into a tumultuous emotional struggle as he grapples with feelings of neglect and jealousy.  The opening of "Rovine" sets the stage for an exploration of familial relationships and the trials of youth. As Pinotto bounces home with excitement to share his academic achievement, he is met not with congratulations, but with a somber atmosphere caused by the dog’s illness. His attempts to share his news are met with indifference, deepening his feelings of isolation and rivalry with Glafir for his mother''s affection. This initial scene paints a vivid picture of Pinotto''s internal conflict and sets the tone for his journey through adolescence, characterized by mischief and the unfolding drama of seeking recognition and connection within his family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74686,500,'Reading ease score: 40.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74686,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74686,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74687,520,'"Captains of Souls" by Edgar Wallace is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Beryl Merville, who expresses her perplexity and curiosity about a mysterious man named Ambrose Sault, while navigating societal pressures and family dynamics. This narrative seems to intertwine themes of love, power, and the complexities of human relations against a backdrop of financial and social intrigue.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Beryl Merville through her letter to Ronnie. She discusses her recent return from Italy, her disappointment at not finding him, and her encounters with Mr. Steppe and the enigmatic Ambrose Sault. Beryl is both fascinated and intimidated by Sault, a colored man with a commanding presence and a tragic backstory, revealed through their interactions. The narrative builds tension around her father''s dubious financial dealings and affiliations with powerful figures like Mr. Steppe and Mr. Moropulos, hinting at a possible underlying scandal. This opening chapter sets the stage for a complex exploration of character relationships intertwined with themes of societal expectation and moral ambiguity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74687,500,'Reading ease score: 85.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74687,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74687,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74688,520,'"Le Robinson des Alpes" by Gustave Aimard is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story centers around the lives of ordinary people living in the picturesque valley of Miribel, focusing on characters such as Jacques Chrétien, a hardworking farmer, and Michel Sauvage, a friend who becomes an influential figure in Jacques'' life. The narrative weaves elements of adventure, nature, and personal development, promising an exploration of rural life in the French Alps.  At the start of the novel, the setting is beautifully described, showcasing the majestic landscapes of the Isère region and its natural wonders. The main characters are introduced: Jacques Chrétien and his wife, Jeannette, who are happy with their newborn daughter, and their friend Michel Sauvage, who reconnects with Jacques after several years apart. The initial chapters establish Michel''s intention to help Jacques realize his farming ambitions by providing a significant loan. As relations deepen between the characters, secrets and promises emerge, hinting at both personal growth and the challenges that lie ahead. The opening sets a tone of camaraderie and nurture amidst the backdrop of stunning natural beauty, inviting readers to embark on this journey alongside the characters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74688,500,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74688,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74688,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74689,520,'"Liekki : Runoja" by L. Onerva is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The book showcases a range of lyrical verses that explore themes of love, nature, and existential reflections, deeply resonating with the human experience. With a rich tapestry of imagery and emotive language, the poems invite readers into a world of introspection and heartfelt expression, typical of the literary movements of that era.  The collection consists of various poems, each painting vivid pictures of emotions and moments through metaphors and symbols. For instance, the poem "Viimeinen laivamies" reflects on the bittersweet nature of adventure and loss at sea, while pieces like "Leppäkerttu" delve into the innocence of childhood and the fleeting nature of life. Other poems like "Elämälle" contemplate existence, urging the reader to embrace life amidst its complexities. The recurring motifs of nature, love, and the search for meaning allow readers to connect with their own feelings of yearning and appreciation for beauty and transience. Overall, "Liekki" serves as a testament to L. Onerva''s eloquence and deep emotional insight, making it a compelling read for poetry enthusiasts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74689,500,'Reading ease score: 59.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74689,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74689,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74690,520,'"Cole of Spyglass Mountain" by Arthur Preston Hankins is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a young boy named Joshua Cole, who finds himself at odds with authority figures such as his schoolteacher and father. As he navigates the challenges of childhood, including his own curiosity and rebellious spirit, Joshua''s adventures lead him to contemplate running away to the West, seeking freedom and adventure in a new life.  At the start of the book, the plot establishes a snapshot of Joshua''s world as he participates in a bet with his friends while observing a slug''s unique descending ability. However, the narrative quickly intensifies as Joshua faces harsh realities at home and school, indicative of a troubled family life. The opening chapters illustrate his bond with his younger brother, Lester, and spotlight his defiance against their oppressive father and school authority. Through a mix of boyish experimentation, rebellion, and an aspiration for independence, Joshua''s journey introduces themes of courage, brotherhood, and the quest for personal identity, setting the stage for his future adventures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74690,500,'Reading ease score: 81.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74690,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74690,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74691,520,'"Christmas in Modern Story: An Anthology for Adults" edited by Maud Van Buren and Katharine Isabel Bemis is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. This anthology appears to focus on various narratives celebrating the essence of Christmas, exploring themes of love, generosity, and the spirit of the season. The opening portion introduces readers to a heartfelt story about a small girl and her mother as they prepare for Christmas in modest circumstances, highlighting the warmth of family and the importance of making the best of what they have.  At the start of this anthology, the first story features a small girl and her mother in their cozy home as they prepare a beefsteak pie for their Christmas dinner. Despite their financial struggles, they find joy in the simple pleasures and embrace an attitude of contentment. The small girl imagines their vegetables as precious gems, illustrating her innocent understanding of wealth and happiness. As her mother interacts with the neighbors, who are more concerned with materialism, readers see the contrast between their values. Ultimately, this opening segment sets the tone for the anthology, showcasing the beauty of shared moments and the true meaning of Christmas amidst life''s challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74691,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74691,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74691,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74692,520,'"Odenwaldin tammi" by Otto Roquette is a fictional narrative written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds in a picturesque setting around the Odenwald area and revolves around a group of young people, their relationships, and a mysterious uncle, which hints at themes of love, societal expectations, and personal conflict. Key characters include a young lady named Klara, her friend Fritz, and the enigmatic Lord von Hohnstein, whose departure from a gathering raises curiosity and foreshadows deeper tensions in the narrative.  The opening of "Odenwaldin tammi" introduces a lively scene where young characters engage in music and banter, exploring the nuances of their relationships. The abrupt exit of an older gentleman from the room evokes questions among the younger group, particularly concerning their approach to a song about the Odenwald tree, which holds not just a melody but also a weight of memories and emotions. The characters exhibit a playful yet poignant dynamic, underscored by the rising tension through their conversations about love and youth''s fleeting joys. As the narrative progresses, early allusions to past encounters and emotional entanglements suggest that secrets and unspoken feelings may surface, setting the stage for a rich exploration of human connections amidst the serene backdrop of the Odenwald landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74692,500,'Reading ease score: 41.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74692,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74693,520,'"A Yankee Doctor in Paradise" by S. M. Lambert is a memoir written in the early 21st century. The book chronicles the experiences of Dr. Lambert, an American physician working for the Rockefeller Foundation, as he embarks on various health campaigns across the Pacific Islands, particularly focusing on his work in Papua New Guinea and Fiji. The narrative provides insights into the public health challenges, cultural interactions, and personal adventures faced by the author as he addresses pressing medical issues in these regions.  At the start of the memoir, Dr. Lambert receives his assignment to Papua from Dr. Heiser of the Rockefeller Foundation and reflects on his previous medical experiences that have prepared him for this role. He describes his initial ignorance about Papua and the expectations of his new position, emphasizing the disparities between life in the mainland United States and the tropical challenges he anticipates. As he prepares for his journey, he expresses gratitude for the support he received from various individuals along the way, illustrating the interconnectedness of his personal and professional life. The opening sets the stage for an exploration of Lambert''s adventurous endeavor in public health, revealing his aspirations and concerns as he embarks on this significant chapter of his career. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74693,500,'Reading ease score: 71.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74693,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74693,441);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74694,520,'"Rusbrock l''Admirable (œuvres choisies)" by Jan van Ruusbroec is a collection of spiritual writings attributed to the mystic and theologian John Ruusbroec, crafted in the 14th century. The text delves into themes of Christian mysticism, focusing particularly on the life, teachings, and contemplative practices of Rusbrock, emphasizing his profound connection to the divine and the transformative power of love and contemplation in achieving spiritual enlightenment.   The opening of this work presents a rich introduction to the figure of Jean Rusbrock, portraying him as a revered mystic whose insights transcend the understanding of ordinary believers. Within the first sections, the translator and introductory writers highlight Rusbrock’s remarkable ability to synthesize deep theological and mystical truths, noting his influence on both contemporaries and future generations. This portion invites readers to explore the various dimensions of spiritual experience and encourages a reflective engagement with one''s inner life, as it emphasizes the importance of humility, love, and the pursuit of a personal relationship with God. Through allegorical imagery and earnest reflections, the text sets the stage for a profound exploration of spiritual realities that follow in Rusbrock''s writings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74694,500,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74694,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74694,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74695,520,'"The Old House, and Other Stories" by Blanche Sellers Ortmann is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. This anthology reflects on the beauty of nature, human emotions, and the passage of time, centering around themes of nostalgia and the importance of connection to the natural world. Ortmann''s writing embodies a spirit of simplicity and warmth, aiming to inspire readers to appreciate the world around them.  The stories within the collection present various themes and characters, each weaving a narrative that connects the human experience with nature. In “The Old House,” the titular house serves as a witness to generations of life, reflecting on its past inhabitants and their joys and sorrows. Other tales explore the lives of boxwood trees, a thoroughbred horse named Bar-Gee, the emotional journey of a violin, and the poignant story of two goldfish in an Indian princess''s fountain. Each narrative delves into the complexities of life, love, and evolution, encouraging readers to reflect on their own journeys while celebrating the inherent beauty found in everyday moments. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74695,500,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74695,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74695,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74696,520,'"Wind of Destiny" by Sara Lindsay Coleman Porter is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Caroline Howard, who reflects on her life, her relationships, and the aspirations that stretch beyond her small mountain town. At the heart of the narrative is her younger cousin, Dicky, whose adventurous spirit contrasts with Caroline''s sense of contentment in her routine, inviting themes of love, ambition, and self-discovery.  At the start of the novel, readers are introduced to the inner world of Caroline, who is both a schoolteacher and a contemplative woman approaching her 30th birthday. She anxiously awaits letters from her spirited cousin, Dicky, who has taken a bold step into the bustling life of New York City. The opening letters reveal Dicky''s experiences and feelings, as well as Caroline''s deep-seated worries for her cousin''s well-being. Caroline''s reflections encompass her childhood memories, her home in the Blue Ridge Mountains, and her longing for a richer life beyond the confines of her current existence. As the story unfolds, the dynamics of their correspondence hint at themes of love, nostalgia, and the complexities of female friendships during a time of societal expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74696,500,'Reading ease score: 81.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74696,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74697,520,'"Nälkätalvena: Katovuoden kuvaus" by Väinö Kataja is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story is set during a harsh famine year in Finland and revolves around the daily struggles of a peasant family, particularly focusing on the couple, Juho and Henti, as they face the dire consequences of crop failure and food scarcity. It captures the themes of hardship, helplessness, and the impact of poverty on family dynamics.  The opening of the novel describes the bleak circumstances surrounding Juho and Henti''s family as they confront the realities of a failed harvest. The descriptions indicate that their crops have been devastated by frost, leaving them with little to no food. Juho is depicted as physically capable but has adopted a lethargic attitude toward work, much to Henti''s frustration. Henti, on the other hand, struggles to keep her children fed while dealing with her husband''s laziness and growing despair. The narration paints a grim picture of their daily life as they are forced to borrow food from neighbors and consider turning to social assistance, revealing the emotional and physical toll that poverty takes on them as they navigate their desperate situation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74697,500,'https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A4lk%C3%A4talvena',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74697,500,'Reading ease score: 60.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74697,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74697,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74698,520,'"A Good Old Scout" by Theodore Solomons is a poignant short story written during the early 20th century. The narrative centers around themes of friendship, mortality, and the complexities of human greed against the backdrop of the rugged wilderness of Alaska during the gold rush era. The story juxtaposes the values and sentiments of old-timers versus the more opportunistic, modern prospectors in a land rich with both potential wealth and harsh realities.  The plot follows three prospectors – Enoch "Nock" Whipple, Aleck McAdams, and Alfred Turner – as they try to navigate the challenges of the Alaskan wilderness while searching for gold. Whipple, an aging frontiersman, is gravely ill and eventually succumbs to fever, leading to a somber burial. As Turner and McAdams lay him to rest, they discover a rich deposit of gold right at the grave site. This discovery ignites a moral conflict between the two men; Turner argues for exploiting the find, seeing it as a chance to escape their dire financial situation, while McAdams insists on respecting the old scout''s final resting place. Ultimately, McAdams’ steadfastness in honoring Whipple leads him to disguise the grave, ensuring it remains undisturbed. The story concludes with a reflection on the nature of sentiment and respect amidst the greed of their surroundings, demonstrating the complex interplay between human connection and the relentless pursuit of wealth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74698,500,'Reading ease score: 83.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74698,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74698,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74699,520,'"Code of the Mounted" by Floria Howe Bruess is a novel written in the early 20th century. This gripping tale unfolds in the harsh Arctic environment and centers around the characters of Sergeant Hardy and Keith Morely, who find themselves entangled in a high-stakes manhunt as they navigate their respective moral codes in a life-or-death situation. The narrative explores themes of duty, sacrifice, and the complexities of human character under pressure.  The story begins with Sergeant Hardy in pursuit of the mail robber, Keith Morely, who commits his crime out of desperation to obtain a letter that jeopardizes his future with his fiancée. However, after they find shelter in a cabin amid a blizzard, Hardy succumbs to smallpox, and Morely selflessly cares for his enemy, grappling with his own criminal actions. Their roles shift as Morely attempts to escape the law while Hardy struggles with his growing appreciation for Morely''s character. As the plot unfolds, the two men confront their pasts and moral obligations, leading to a tense resolution where personal loyalty conflicts with duty to the law. The novel culminates in a moment of understanding between them, revealing the power of compassion in even the most challenging circumstances. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74699,500,'Reading ease score: 87.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74699,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74699,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74700,520,'"My Toughest Trip" by Sergeant Reading is an Arctic adventure narrative written in the early 20th century. As an account from a member of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police (now the Royal Canadian Mounted Police), the book provides a unique glimpse into the challenges faced by officers patrolling the harsh Arctic landscape and interacting with the local Inuit populations. The narrative centers around the intense experiences and responsibilities of a Mountie, particularly during a rescue mission that takes a dramatic turn.  The storyline follows Sergeant Reading as he undertakes the task of returning an Eskimo woman, Nuttinook, to her rightful husband after resolving a dispute over her abduction. During their journey, they face unforeseen hardships when a storm leaves them stranded on an island. Compounding their troubles, Nuttinook unexpectedly gives birth to a baby girl, while Reading is left to navigate both the emotional and physical challenges of keeping the newborn alive in the unforgiving Arctic wilderness. Throughout the ordeal, Reading showcases his resourcefulness and determination, ultimately fulfilling his duty and returning the child to her community despite the heartbreaking loss of her mother. The account emphasizes both the difficulty and the nobility of the work done by the Mounties in the Arctic, contrasting romanticized portrayals with the realities of their experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74700,500,'Reading ease score: 78.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74700,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74700,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74701,520,'"Where the West Begins" by Austin Hall is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around themes of ownership, ambition, and the classic Western spirit, capturing the struggles and endeavors of individuals living in the American West. The narrative addresses the socio-economic tensions between homesteaders and cattle barons, encapsulating a moment in time when the frontier was still significantly shaped by such conflicts.  The plot follows Billy Magee, a cowboy with a yearning for independence, who stakes a claim on a homestead that is coveted by the wealthy cattle king, Holman. Despite Holman''s attempts to intimidate him into relinquishing his claim, Billy refuses to back down, embodying the tenacity of the frontier spirit. As the story unfolds, Billy discovers a new element in his life when he meets Jennie Ross, a spirited young woman who has also claimed a homestead nearby. The connection they forge serves as both a personal awakening for Billy and a pivot point in his struggle against Holman''s oppressive grasp. Ultimately, their journey reflects a larger narrative of resilience, determination, and the pursuit of one''s dreams in an ever-changing landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74701,500,'Reading ease score: 84.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74701,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74701,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74702,520,'"The Bee, No. 30, Thursday, July 25, 1901" by Various is a historical journalistic publication written in the early 20th century. This edition of "The Bee" appears to provide a mix of news, local history, and advertisements that reflect the social and economic environment of Kentucky during that time. The focus is largely on the coal industry, highlighting significant events related to local coal mining operations and the experiences of both workers and visiting press at a past Kentucky Press Association meeting.  The opening of the article delves into a fascinating historical event from 1878 when the Kentucky Press Association visited the St. Bernard Coal Company and Hecla mines. It vividly recounts the unique underground banquet that took place therein, providing descriptions of the coal mines and the opulent dining experience set against a backdrop of mining operations and camaraderie among local journalists. This setting illustrates the local pride in coal mining, captures the spirit of remembrance, and positions the mines as a source of both economic importance and communal gathering. The narrative sets the tone for discussions surrounding labor, industry developments, and community events that were relevant to the readers of the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74702,500,'Reading ease score: 73.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74702,454);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74702,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74703,520,'"Milly''s Errand: or, Saved to Save" by Emma Leslie is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds in a coastal village, centering around the experiences of two fisher boys, Jack and Bob, who encounter a mysterious and reclusive doctor, Dr. Mansfield. The narrative explores themes of familial bonds, sacrifice, and redemption as the boys gather seaweed for the doctor and, ultimately, rescue a child named Milly from a shipwreck, intertwining their lives in unexpected ways.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to the coastal setting and the two brothers hard at work collecting seaweed to support their sick mother. They discuss the local doctor, who is rumored to be wealthy but haunted by a troubled past. When a storm causes a ship to run aground, Bob bravely saves a child lashed to a spar, bringing her to Dr. Mansfield for help. As Bob and Jack navigate their struggles as fisher boys, the stage is set for Milly''s arrival, which will significantly impact the lives around her, including a transformation for the lonely doctor. The beginning establishes a blend of adventure, compassion, and the complexities of human emotions that characterize the unfolding story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74703,500,'Reading ease score: 78.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74703,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74703,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74704,520,'"Obras dramáticas de Eurípides (2 de 3)" by Eurípides is a collection of Greek tragedies written in the classical period of ancient Greece. This volume includes powerful narratives such as "Las Troyanas," which portrays the devastating aftermath of the fall of Troy, focusing on the fates of its captive women. The central figure is Hécuba, the former queen of Troy, whose emotional turmoil reflects the broader themes of loss, suffering, and the capriciousness of fate.  The opening of "Las Troyanas" introduces the tragic setting after the fall of Troy, where Hécuba and other captured women lament their fate as they face enslavement at the hands of their Greek conquerors. The god Poseidón sets the scene, indicating the ruin brought upon the once-great city. Hécuba is distraught over her lost family and her impending servitude, and she is soon joined by other women who mourn their shared misfortunes. As the Greeks decide the destinies of the captives, dark omens surround Hécuba''s daughter, Casandra, leading to further heart-wrenching developments. This opening sets the tone for a deeply emotional exploration of the consequences of war and human suffering. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74704,500,'Reading ease score: 62.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74704,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74704,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74705,520,'"Herr Corpwieth, gentleman-detektiv" by Emil Hasselblatt, Olaf Homén, and Henning Söderhjelm is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story features the main character, Corpwieth, an observant and analytical librarian who becomes entangled in a series of peculiar and perplexing events that unfold within the library''s walls. The narrative is a blend of mystery and intrigue, revolving around a theft that triggers Corpwieth''s detective instincts and sets the stage for a deeper investigation into motives and secrets.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Corpwieth and other amanuenses working in a library where a mysterious disarray of books raises suspicion among the staff. Corpwieth, initially detached from the chaos, begins to speculate on the peculiar circumstances and motivations behind the bizarre occurrences. As he quietly observes the events unfold, he becomes determined to unravel the mystery, which deepens further as a series of strange incidents occur around the library, ultimately leading to the discovery of a more significant plot involving espionage tied to a long-hidden letter with potential political ramifications. The opening sets a tone of intellectual curiosity and suspense, inviting readers to delve into the unfolding mysteries alongside Corpwieth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74705,500,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74705,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74705,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74706,520,'"In the Clouds" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story introduces us to the lives of two herders, Ben Doaks and Mink Lorey, who navigate the desolate yet breathtaking landscape of the Great Smoky Mountains. The narrative sets up an exploration of their daily lives, punctuated by moments of absurdity, interpersonal tensions, and an undercurrent of the supernatural, particularly surrounding the mysterious figure known as the Herder from Thunderhead.  The opening of the novel immerses the reader in the lonesome beauty of Piomingo Bald, where Ben Doaks often reflects on the ominous presence of the peak Thunderhead. Mink, his companion, struggles with the isolation and monotony of their environment, often engaging in mischievous antics, showcasing his restless spirit. Their conversations reveal not only their personalities but also hints of local legends regarding a spectral herder and the unknown forces that govern their lives. As they confront both the physical and metaphysical challenges of their world, the relationship between the two herders, coupled with the looming threat of the supernatural, lays the groundwork for a story rich in character development and atmospheric tension. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74706,500,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74706,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74706,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74707,520,'"Den gåtfulle dubbelgångaren" by Holger Nohrström is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book presents a mysterious narrative revolving around the themes of identity and deception as characters grapple with the enigmatic disappearance of a fellow academic, Thomas Melón, who finds himself entangled in a bizarre series of events. The story unfolds in a setting that is likely within an academic and somewhat literate milieu, imbuing it with an air of intellectual intrigue.  In the narrative, the protagonist, Thomas Melón, meets with his colleagues to share a surreal experience that he cannot grasp. After receiving a peculiar letter from Eva Limburg, the daughter of a well-known director, he is drawn back into a tangled web of personal history and the supernatural when he unexpectedly encounters the supposed ghost of Director Limburg. As the story progresses, Melón''s friends, representing various academic disciplines, become involved in attempting to unravel the mystery of his encounter. Their discussions and analyses echo classic detective stories, blending humor and tension, as they reveal surprising truths about identity and the nature of reality itself. Through witty dialogues and intricate plotting, the novel engages readers in a mystery that is as much about relationships and societal expectations as it is about the ghostly doppelgänger. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74707,500,'Reading ease score: 63.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74707,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74707,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74708,520,'"German Wit and Humor: A Collection from Various Sources Classified Under Appropriate Subject Headings" is a compilation of humorous anecdotes, tales, and observations focusing on different subjects in German culture, likely compiled in the early 20th century. The book presents a delightful array of wit that encompasses various professions and social situations, highlighting both the absurdities and the charm of everyday life through laughter.  The opening of this collection introduces readers to examples of humor from the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, showcasing comedic tales featuring characters like Eulenspiegel, a renowned trickster who plays with the gullibility of townsfolk, and anecdotal reflections on human nature and societal quirks. Stories such as the beggar''s clever defense in court and a farmer''s interpretation of the Trinity illustrate the blend of wit with moral lessons that define the collection. Through its light-hearted storytelling, readers are invited to appreciate the timeless essence of humor within German folklore. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74708,500,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74708,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74708,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74709,520,'"A Knight of the Air, or The Aerial Rivals" by Henry Tracey Coxwell is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story centers around Harry Goodall, an ambitious young aeronaut passionate about ballooning and aeronautics, who finds himself entangled in both scientific experimentation and mysterious intrigues. As Goodall prepares for important tests of his balloon and airship designs, he navigates not only the complexities of his inventions but also the dangers posed by shadowy figures who seem intent on thwarting his efforts.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Mr. Harry Goodall, who is anxiously waiting for the arrival of a cab in Trafalgar Square, setting off a series of mysterious events. Observing two suspicious men looming nearby, Goodall becomes intrigued and somewhat paranoid about their intentions. Upon reaching the Crystal Palace, where he has set up his aeronautical experiments, he is further drawn into intrigue when a young lady named Miss Chain and her mother become involved. Combined with the potential threat from his uncle, who disapproves of his ballooning pursuits, and the arrival of antagonistic figures from his past, the stage is set for a story filled with adventure, romance, and the aspirations of early aviation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74709,500,'Reading ease score: 76.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74709,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74709,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74710,520,'"Celtic Scotland: A History of Ancient Alban. Volume 3 (of 3), Land and People" by William F. Skene is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This volume serves as the concluding part of a comprehensive work detailing the Celtic period of Scottish history, focusing specifically on the land and social conditions of its early inhabitants. The topic is likely to interest readers who are keen on exploring the complexities of Scotland’s Celtic heritage, including its land tenures, social structures, and ethnic compositions.  The opening of the volume presents the author''s preface, where he discusses the publication of the third edition and offers a brief overview of the historical context. Skene sets the stage by detailing the final phases of the consolidation of Scotland into a one feudal monarchy during the reign of Alexander the Third. He emphasizes the importance of understanding the social and political organization of the people living in Scotland during this period, illustrating the diversity of races that composed the population, including Picts, Britons, Scots, and various external influences. Through this detailed examination, readers are invited to appreciate the intricate historical tapestry of ancient Scotland, paving the way for further exploration into individual chapters that delve deeper into Scotland''s past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74710,500,'Reading ease score: 64.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74710,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74710,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74711,520,'"Par-dessus le mur" by Frédéric Boutet is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in a picturesque setting, introducing characters such as a young nomadic boy and a mysterious girl who peeks over a crumbling park wall. The book examines themes of love, social class, and the allure of the unknown as their interactions develop in the serene but secretive backdrop of a park and surrounding woods.  The opening of the novel introduces a dilapidated wall in a park and a boy who lives a nomadic lifestyle alongside an elderly woman he calls his grandmother. One day, he meets a curious girl who observes him from atop the wall. Their initial conversations hint at a budding romance filled with intrigue, as the girl is fascinated by the boy’s assumed identity as a nomad. The boy both plays into and resists her romanticized view of his life, leading to an intense exchange of feelings and dramatic revelations that complicate their relationship. As the boy grapples with his feelings and her true nature is slowly revealed, the stage is set for their intertwined fates. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74711,500,'Reading ease score: 84.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74711,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74712,520,'"Soidinsaari: Tarina Koitereen Malmilautoilta" by Simo Eronen is a novel written in the early 20th century." The book explores the life and adventures of a narrator, who finds himself on the shores of Lake Koitere during springtime, surrounded by the beauty and challenges of nature. As he navigates through the evolving landscape and engages with the local people, particularly focusing on themes of adventure, friendship, and the raw appeal of an untouched environment, the narrative begins to reveal the deeper significance of connection to the land and its resources.  "At the start of the story, the protagonist arrives at the lakeside during the melting spring season, which brings life back to the land, symbolized by the swans returning to the open waters." He describes the vibrant changes in nature, the arrival of migratory birds, and his initial encounters with local characters, such as Huurinainen, an experienced lumberjack and entrepreneur, and Kaisu, a charming girl from Kiviharju, whose connection to the protagonist grows stronger through shared experiences. The opening portions depict both the enchanting scenery of the Koitere region and the protagonist''s longing for a meaningful existence among its beauty, setting the stage for his evolving relationship with nature and the people around him as he strives to escape his urban past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74712,500,'Reading ease score: 40.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74712,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74712,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74713,520,'"The Opinions of Jérôme Coignard" by Anatole France is a philosophical novel written in the late 19th century. The book centers around Abbé Jérôme Coignard, a scholar and librarian who engages in various philosophical discussions about society, government, and human nature, all while showcasing his unique blend of skepticism and compassion. The text is both a satire on human folly and a reflection on the wisdom of simple truths.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Abbé Coignard through the eyes of his devoted pupil, Jacques Menétrier, known as Tournebroche. It discusses Coignard''s biography, his tragic end, and the insights of his character. Notably, Coignard is depicted as a figure of wisdom and gentleness, often holding contrarian views regarding politics and society, demonstrating a disdain for the pomp of rulers and the pretense of statecraft. The narrative is vibrant, with engaging dialogues that explore Coignard''s critiques of contemporary issues, including the nature of governance and mankind''s intractable flaws, while displaying his belief that true virtue lies in simplicity and humility. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74713,500,'Reading ease score: 65.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74713,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74713,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74714,520,'"The Black Ship: With Other Allegories and Parables" by Elizabeth Rundle Charles is a collection of allegorical tales likely written in the mid-19th century. The prominent narrative centers around two children, Hope and May, who live in a picturesque but isolated island environment and engage in imaginative adventures while facing the shadow of a mysterious threat—the titular Black Ship. Through a blend of innocence, childhood wonder, and eventual confrontation with deeper fears and truths, the tales seem aimed at exploring themes of love, loss, and the search for understanding in a complex world.  The opening of the book introduces Hope and May, who are depicted as inseparable siblings living under the care of their tender yet fearful mother. Their idyllic life takes a dark turn when their mother reveals the eerie burden of the Black Ship that periodically appears to kidnap residents from their island without a trace. As the children grapple with this horrifying reality, they explore their hopes of climbing the mountains surrounding their home to discover what lies beyond, all while trying to comprehend their mother’s fears surrounding the sea. This emotional and suspenseful start sets the stage for a reflection on the nature of mystery, loss, and the profound bond of family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74714,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74714,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74714,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74715,520,'"Syyttäjät: Nelinäytöksinen draama" by L. Onerva is a play written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in a large Finnish city, focusing on the complexities of the characters'' relationships, including those between the poet Johannes Petra, his wife Niina, and their daughter Virva, as well as family dynamics that reflect broader societal themes.   The opening of the play introduces the characters and their conflicts through a conversation between Niina and her daughter Virva. Niina expresses her concerns about Virva’s melancholic demeanor and lack of engagement with her surroundings, revealing the strained emotional landscape of their home. Virva’s disinterest in life and her desire for freedom create tension, especially with the looming presence of her father, Johannes, who is absorbed in his own world as a poet. This dynamic sets the stage for the exploration of individual desires versus familial responsibilities, hinting at underlying themes of love, duty, and societal expectations that will likely evolve throughout the unfolding drama. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74715,500,'Reading ease score: 54.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74715,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74715,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74716,520,'"Handbook on Dress and Cloak Cutting" by Charles Hecklinger is a practical guide on garment construction written in the late 19th century. This handbook focuses on improving dress and cloak cutting techniques, providing systematic instructions for students and professionals in the fashion industry. The book aims to simplify the learning process, making it accessible for those entering this field, while also ensuring precision and satisfaction in the outcomes of their cutting and fitting practices.  The opening of the handbook presents an introduction that establishes its purpose: to aid students who struggle with selecting an effective cutting system. Hecklinger introduces his "Improved System of Dress and Cloak Cutting," emphasizing its ease of learning and application. He points out the importance of using measurements that account for both height and width of the human body to achieve well-fitted garments. The text includes detailed illustrations and systematic guidelines for drafting patterns based on accurate measurements, addressing various sizes and body shapes to maximize the utility and effectiveness of the techniques taught. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74716,500,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74716,439);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74716,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74717,520,'"When I Was a Boy in China" by Yan Phou Lee is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The work chronicles the author''s early life and experiences as a boy growing up in China during a period of significant cultural and social change. The narrative provides a personal perspective on the customs, traditions, and beliefs of Chinese society, exploring themes such as family structure, education, and the stark differences between Eastern and Western cultures.  At the start of the narrative, Lee recounts his birth in 1861 and the associated celebrations, emphasizing cultural practices such as name-giving and the societal value placed on male heirs. The opening portion vividly describes the author''s infancy, the customs surrounding parenting and child-rearing, and his first memories, providing insight into the familial expectations and restrictions he faced. Lee''s recollections illustrate a childhood steeped in the rich traditions of Chinese culture, alongside the strict discipline imposed by societal norms, setting the stage for his eventual journey to the United States. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74717,500,'Reading ease score: 69.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74717,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74717,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74718,520,'"Miss Ayr of Virginia, & Other Stories" by Julia Magruder is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The opening story centers around Carter Ayr, a young woman from Virginia, as she navigates the unfamiliar social dynamics of her wealthy cousins in New York City. The story explores themes of class, identity, and the struggle for acceptance as Carter contrasts her modest upbringing with the opulence surrounding her.  At the start of the narrative, Carter arrives in New York amid a flurry of fashionable expectations, feeling out of place in her country attire. As she joins her glamorous cousins and their flashy acquaintances on a coach to the races, she grapples with feelings of inadequacy and isolation. In a moment of unexpected bravery, Carter takes charge during a crisis involving a stubborn ox, showcasing her determination and resourcefulness. Amidst the crowd''s attention, she slowly begins to earn respect and admiration, which marks a turning point in her experience as she reconciles her Southern identity with her new environment. This opening portion effectively sets the stage for a broader exploration of societal expectations and personal growth throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74718,500,'Reading ease score: 74.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74718,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74718,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74719,520,'"A Summary of the History, Construction and Effects in Warfare of the Projectile-Throwing Engines of the Ancients" by Sir Ralph Payne-Galway is a historical treatise written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the mechanics and tactical applications of ancient siege engines, particularly focusing on catapults, balistas, and early artillery methods. It aims to provide a meticulous account of how these engines were designed, constructed, and employed in warfare, underscoring their historical significance.  The opening of the book sets the stage by offering insights into the historical context and technological evolution of ancient projectile engines. In the preface, the author mentions the substantial knowledge he has gathered since his previous works on archery and ancient weaponry, aiming to compile a comprehensive discussion on these powerful instruments. He begins by referencing ancient Greek and Roman sources to illustrate the precision and ingenuity of siege technology during those times. This foundation establishes the importance of understanding these engines not only for historical appreciation but also for the practical application in modern reconstructions and warfare studies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74719,500,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74719,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74719,437);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74720,520,'"Du Niger au golfe de Guinée par le pays de Kong et le Mossi, tome 1 (de 2)" by Capitaine Binger is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work documents the captain''s explorations and findings as he undertakes a significant geographical and political mission, aiming to connect the French territories in the interior of West Africa with the Gulf of Guinea. The book likely focuses on the landscapes, cultures, and experiences encountered during this adventurous journey through regions largely uncharted at the time.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage for a detailed expedition, highlighting the captain''s preparations and the motivations behind his journey. It describes the logistical challenges he faces in organizing a long-lasting mission, including buying supplies, selecting personnel, and acquiring letters of recommendation for safe passage. As he departs from the port of Bordeaux and eventually reaches Dakar, the narrative shifts to his experiences in Saint-Louis and Bakel, where he assembles his team and their equipment for traversing the challenging terrain towards the Niger River. Throughout the descriptions, the reader gains insight into his expectations, the indigenous communities, and the socio-political dynamics influencing his mission as he aims to gather vital information about the regions of Kong and Mossi. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74720,500,'Reading ease score: 73.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74720,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74720,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74721,520,'"Du Niger au golfe de Guinée par le pays de Kong et le Mossi, tome 2 (de 2)" by Capitaine Binger is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work documents the author''s explorations and experiences during his travels through the regions of Kong and the Mossi, focusing on the landscapes, cultures, and peoples he encountered along the way. The narrative likely delves into the challenges faced during these journeys, including interactions with local tribes and observations of their customs.  The opening of the book introduces readers to Binger''s expedition, begun in July 1888, detailing his departure from Bouganiéna as he embarks on a journey into the Gourounsi region. He faces numerous challenges, including the lack of interpreters among his guides and the hostile reactions from some villages he encounters. As he passes through deserted settlements, meets locals, and reflects on the impacts of Gandiari''s expeditions on the populace, the textual tapestry showcases the coexistence of danger, culture, and nature while weaving in local folklore, particularly fables that convey deeper moral lessons concerning cunning and survival. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74721,500,'Reading ease score: 65.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74721,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74721,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74722,520,'"Ankarat tähdet: Romaani" by Vilho Helanen is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story takes place in Finland and revolves around the lives, aspirations, and relationships of its main characters, particularly focusing on young Pentti Kaira as he navigates complex themes of love, nationalism, and disillusionment, reflective of the historical context of the time.  The opening of the novel introduces us to a scene filled with vibrant social interactions, where Pentti Kaira is engaging with a captivating young woman named Katherine during a gathering filled with music and laughter. Pentti appears enthralled by Katherine''s charm, but as their conversation develops, it reveals deeper layers of introspection regarding their identities and national sentiments. Their playful banter becomes more serious, touching on themes of national pride, societal obligations, and personal disillusionment, which sets the emotional tone for the unfolding narrative. This portion of the novel deftly combines elements of romance and profound philosophical reflection, hinting at the bittersweet dichotomy of youth''s optimism contrasted against the somber realities of their world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74722,500,'Reading ease score: 46.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74722,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74722,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74723,520,'"The First Voyage Round the World, by Magellan" is a historical account compiled from contemporary writings, primarily translated from the accounts of Antonio Pigafetta and others. It was published in the late 19th century and focuses on Ferdinand Magellan''s groundbreaking expedition that resulted in the first circumnavigation of the globe. The book likely explores themes of exploration, navigation, and the challenges faced by Magellan and his crew.  At the start of the narrative, the introduction delves into the historical context of Magellan''s journey, detailing the motivations behind his departure from Portugal to serve under the Spanish crown. It discusses how he was perceived as a traitor by the Portuguese, stemming from his quest for advancement that was spurred by denial of recognition and support from King Manuel of Portugal. The opening portion sets the stage for Magellan''s impending voyages and the complexities of his relationships with both the Portuguese and Spanish authorities, laying the groundwork for the adventures and trials he and his crew would face on their journey around the world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74723,500,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74723,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74723,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74724,520,'"Henoch Arden" by Baron Alfred Tennyson Tennyson is a narrative poem written during the Victorian era. The book explores themes of love, loss, and the passage of time through the story of Henoch, a fisherman whose life is profoundly affected by his long absence from home. The poem follows Henoch''s journey from his youthful love for Annie Lee to his unexpected return after years at sea, only to find that life has moved on in his absence.  The storyline begins with Henoch, Annie, and their friend Philip in their childhood, highlighting their innocent love and the jealousy that ensues as they grow older. Henoch leaves to seek a better life, enduring shipwreck and solitude, while Annie, believing him dead, eventually marries Philip, who has been caring for her children. Upon his return to the village, Henoch grapples with his feelings of loss and betrayal, as he discovers Annie''s new life with Philip. The narrative encapsulates the emotional turmoil faced by Henoch as he resolves to remain hidden to protect Annie and his children from the heartache of his return, ultimately choosing to let go for the sake of their happiness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74724,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enoch_Arden',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74724,500,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74724,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74724,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74725,520,'"Jamaica as it is, 1903" by B. Pullen-Burry is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. The work serves as a guide to Jamaica, detailing its tropical scenery, historical significance, and potential as a winter resort destination. The author aims to highlight the natural beauty and cultural aspects of Jamaica, particularly for readers unacquainted with the island.  The opening of the text describes the author''s initial experiences and observations upon arriving in Jamaica. It begins with a reflection on a sermon delivered by the Assistant-Bishop of Jamaica that captures the diverse demographic of the island. The author expresses a sense of fascination with the people, landscape, and climate, as well as a desire to dispel misconceptions about Jamaica’s geography—like its distance from volcanoes. The narrative reveals the author''s intention to document her travels and encounters, presenting Jamaica''s vibrant culture and scenery while also shedding light on the social dynamics among its inhabitants. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74725,500,'Reading ease score: 63.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74725,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74725,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74726,520,'"“History of the World War, Volume 1 (of 7): An Authentic Narrative of the World’s Greatest War” by Francis A. March is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book chronicles the events and narratives surrounding World War I, detailing the causes, key battles, and outcomes through a comprehensive examination of military strategies and geopolitical dynamics. The account seeks to provide factual, orderly descriptions of the conflict, emphasizing the perspectives of the United States and its allies."  "The opening of the narrative establishes the context of the war''s conclusion following the Armistice signed on November 11, 1918. It emphasizes the tremendous scale of the conflict and the Allied forces'' efforts, particularly highlighting the United States'' entry into the war as a significant turning point. Furthermore, it lays the groundwork for discussing the motivations driving the war, detailing how multiple nations were drawn into the conflict as they rallied against German militarism. The author expresses a clear intent to present historical events without delving into speculative conclusions, setting the tone for a work focused on accuracy and clarity in recounting the war''s complex history." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74726,500,'Reading ease score: 58.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74726,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74726,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74727,520,'"History of the World War, Volume 2 (of 7): An Authentic Narrative of the World''s Greatest War" by Francis A. March is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This volume delves specifically into the naval engagements and overseas dynamics of World War I, showcasing the strategic importance of naval power, particularly highlighting the British and German fleets'' roles. The book outlines key battles, tactics, and pivotal figures, emphasizing the impact of maritime control on the war''s progression.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage for the struggle for supremacy at sea, beginning with the catastrophic sinking of British warships "Aboukir," "Cressy," and "Hogue" at the hands of German submarines. It introduces Captain Mahan''s thesis on the significance of naval power in warfare and illustrates how the British Grand Fleet''s might formed a crucial barrier against German ambitions. The initial chapters outline various naval skirmishes, strategies, and notable figures like Admiral Sir John Jellicoe and Admiral von Tirpitz, while also addressing the consequential blockade of Germany by the British, establishing the dire conditions in both Britain and Germany as the war unfolded. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74727,500,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74727,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74727,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74728,520,'"History of the World War, Volume 4 (of 7): An Authentic Narrative of the World''s Greatest War" by Francis A. March is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This volume focuses on Canada’s contributions and military actions during World War I, particularly exploring key battles and the evolution of Canadian forces. It captures the profound impact the war had on Canada and highlights pivotal moments in the broader context of the global conflict.  The opening of this volume details Canada''s initial reaction to the outbreak of World War I, which transformed the country from a peaceful nation into a formidable military contributor to the British Empire. It chronicles the rapid mobilization and volunteer enlistment of Canadian soldiers, showcasing their readiness to defend their homeland and empire. Moreover, the narrative emphasizes the establishment of military training camps, the gallant spirit of Canadian troops during initial battles, and their eventual participation in significant confrontations, setting the stage for Canada’s evolution into a recognized military power in global conflict. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74728,500,'Reading ease score: 57.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74728,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74728,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74729,520,'"La colla d''en Pep Mata; o, ''Els martirs de l''Inquisició'': Sainet" by Ignasi Iglésias is a theatrical play written in the early 20th century. This work is a satirical comedy that explores themes of love, ambition, and societal norms within the context of a small Catalan town. The play is set during contemporary times, reflecting the cultural and artistic tensions of the period.  The story revolves around Pep Mata, the enthusiastic director of a local theatre group, who is eagerly preparing to stage a controversial play titled "Els martirs de l''Inquisició." Among the colorful cast of characters, including the talented but young Enriqueta Vallès and the temperamental Constança, the interactions are filled with comedic moments and struggles related to artistic aspirations and personal relationships. As the opening night approaches, tensions rise when the local authorities intervene, threatening to ban the performance due to its provocative content. In a comedic climax, Pep and his friends must navigate their desires and fears while dealing with the challenges of staging their production and maintaining their dignity as amateur actors. As the curtain falls, the play leaves the audience reflecting on the value of art and the nature of resistance against oppressive authority. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74729,500,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74729,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74729,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74730,520,'"California Illustrated: Including a Description of the Panama and Nicaragua Routes" by A Returned Californian is a travel memoir written in the early 1850s. It details the author''s journey and experiences as he traverses the maritime routes leading to California during the Gold Rush era. The narrative is expected to provide insights into the adventures, challenges, and everyday life encountered along the way, particularly focusing on the vibrant landscapes, societies, and the nature of gold-seeking during this transformative period.  At the start of this memoir, the author shares his feelings of anticipation and melancholy as he departs from New York en route to California on the bark "Marietta." The journey commences with vivid descriptions of the ocean voyage, from the feelings of sea sickness among the passengers to the encounters with marine life, including whales and dolphins. An account of their passage through various Caribbean islands unfolds, painting a picture of natural beauty and adventure. The author’s reflections capture both the excitement of the journey towards California and the challenges faced, such as the sickness that afflicted many travelers, which sets the tone for the trials yet to come as they make their way towards what was viewed as the golden opportunity of California. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74730,500,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74730,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74730,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74731,520,'"Kapinoitsija" by Ilmari Kianto is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. The work reflects various themes prevalent in Finnish society, such as struggle, identity, nature, and the human condition, often from a deeply emotional perspective. The poems resonate with nationalistic sentiments, highlighting the issues and experiences of the Finnish people during a time of change and awakening.  The opening of the collection presents a rich tapestry of emotions and thoughts captured in lyrical form. It begins with reflections on the nature of poetry itself and the emotional turmoil that inspires a poet. Kianto''s verses seek to explore the heart of a man, touching on themes of love, suffering, and the longing for a deeper connection with nature and humanity. Notably, the poems employ vivid imagery and personal introspection, inviting readers to consider their own experiences in relation to the struggles depicted in the text. Overall, the beginning sets a tone of thoughtful exploration and artistic expression that characterizes the entire collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74731,500,'Reading ease score: 51.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74731,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74732,520,'"On the Theory of the Infinite in Modern Thought: Two Introductory Studies" by E. F. Jourdain is a scholarly examination of the interplay between mathematics and philosophy, specifically focusing on conceptions of the finite and the infinite. Written in the early 20th century, this book navigates complex philosophical and mathematical ideas and highlights how developments in one field influence the other. The text delves into significant themes such as the historical evolution of these concepts, their implications for metaphysics and ethics, and the relationships between mathematical theory and philosophical inquiry.  The book comprises two studies that articulate the relationship between the finite and the infinite from both philosophical and mathematical perspectives. In the first study, Jourdain explores how different historical periods have perceived and understood the ideas of finitude and infinity, tracing their development from ancient Greece through to modern mathematical advancements, including Cantor''s work on transfinite numbers. The second study addresses pragmatism and a theory of knowledge, discussing how knowledge evolves through human interaction with the environment and integrating mathematical logic into philosophical thought. Overall, Jourdain presents a nuanced discussion that underscores the need for a philosophical approach informed by mathematical principles, arguing that both fields must collaborate to enrich understanding of reality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74732,500,'Reading ease score: 47.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74732,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74732,459);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74733,520,'"Scrambled Eggs" by Lawton Mackall is a whimsical collection of stories, written in the early 20th century, featuring anthropomorphic animals, particularly focusing on the trials and tribulations of a drake named Eustace and his interactions in the barnyard. The book humorously explores themes of gender roles, societal expectations, and individuality through the lens of barnyard life.  The narrative follows Eustace, an upstanding drake, as he navigates the complexities of relationships, particularly with his spirited wife Gertrude. Their exchanges often reflect broader social critiques, such as Eustace''s struggles with the pressures of masculinity and the expectations placed upon him by society—exemplified by his reluctance to help incubate their eggs out of fear of being ridiculed. The stories delve into various dynamics in the barnyard, from marital strife and jealousy to the absurdities of gossip and social standing, culminating in a poignant exploration of love, loyalty, and personal identity amidst comedic misadventures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74733,500,'Reading ease score: 85.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74733,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74733,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74734,520,'"Caleb Field: A Tale of the Puritans" by Mrs. Oliphant is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative explores the challenges faced by Puritan ministers in the tumultuous period following the Restoration of Charles II, specifically the plight of the main character, Caleb Field, and his daughter Edith as they navigate a society rife with persecution and danger due to their religious beliefs. The book delves into themes of faith, courage, and the moral dilemmas associated with devotion to one''s faith amidst widespread fear and suffering.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to the serene yet troubled setting of a humble shepherd''s cottage in Cumberland, where Caleb Field, a devoted Puritan minister, is contemplating the dangers ahead. His daughter, Edith, waits anxiously for her father''s return, knowing that he is a hunted man, banished for his beliefs. The conversation between father and daughter reveals their strong bond and their shared commitment to their faith, as Caleb prepares to risk his life to return to London to minister to the souls afflicted by the plague, even as he struggles with the prospect of leaving Edith alone. The opening chapters effectively set the tone for a story that intertwines personal sacrifice with broader socio-religious tensions of the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74734,500,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74734,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74734,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74735,520,'"Murtuneita: Nelinäytöksinen näytelmä" by Kaarle Halme is a four-act play written in the early 20th century. The narrative revolves around the life of a rural family, focusing on the interactions and conflicts between characters such as Erkki Koljas, his children Pentti and Eevi, and Aina, who is engaged with Pentti. The play explores themes of familial duty, love, societal expectations, and personal ambition, offering a glimpse into the emotional landscapes of its characters.  The opening of the play sets a domestic scene in a richly decorated rural living room during a winter afternoon. It introduces the characters Eevi and Pentti, who engage in a light-hearted yet revealing conversation about their expectations and opinions on Aina, who is a schoolteacher in their village. Tensions emerge concerning family obligations and romantic interests, particularly around Pentti''s affection for Aina and the pressure from their father, Erkki Koljas, regarding societal and financial ambitions. The characters depict different perspectives on love and duty, hinting at deeper issues to unfold as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74735,500,'Reading ease score: 55.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74735,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74735,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74736,520,'"By Neva''s Waters: Being an Episode in the Secret History of Alexander the First, Czar of All the Russias" by John R. Carling is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set during the beginning of the 19th century, following the life and adventures of Viscount Wilfrid Courtenay, an English gentleman with a chivalrous spirit reminiscent of the Middle Ages. The narrative explores themes of romance, intrigue, and political maneuvering within the context of Russian history, particularly concerning the enigmatic figure of Czar Alexander I.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to a grand ball held at the Royal Palace in Berlin, where Wilfrid Courtenay engages in spirited discussions about political tensions in Europe. Here, he is reunited with his friend, Prince Serge Ouvaroff, who is troubled by a family secret. The plot thickens as Count Baranoff, a Russian envoy, presents an outrageous proposal involving a beautiful princess of noble lineage, whom he wishes to compromise for his political gain. As Wilfrid grapples with the morality of Baranoff''s proposition and reflects on his growing feelings for the princess, the stage is set for a tale filled with romantic intrigue and danger, as he prepares to navigate a world where love and honor clash with the harsh reality of political machinations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74736,500,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74736,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74736,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74737,520,'"The Santa Claus Brownies" by Ethel Calvert Phillips is a collection of children''s stories written in the early 20th century. The book features enchanting tales of the Brownies, tiny helpers of Santa Claus, as they prepare for Christmas and interact with various whimsical characters in the North Pole. The stories explore themes of kindness, creativity, and the magic of the holiday season.  The collection opens with the story of a Rocking-Horse Pony who wishes for blue eyes, prompting a humorous adventure among the Brownies as they try to fulfill his desire. In "The Gay Little Town of Bo-Peep," the Brownies discover a town devoid of fun and joy due to a new King''s strict rules, leading them to restore happiness by allowing children to play again. Subsequent tales include a lesson on responsibility with the Little Brown Boy learning to pick up after himself and discovering the importance of his toys and the touching story of Merrythought, a Brownie who rediscovers the true spirit of Christmas by bringing joy to children who have none. Each story combines fantasy and moral lessons, highlighting the joy of giving and the essence of childhood wonder. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74737,500,'Reading ease score: 91.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74737,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74737,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74738,520,'"Fairview Boys on a Ranch: or, Riding with the Cowboys" by Frederick Gordon is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around a group of young boys—Frank, Sammy, and Bob—who are excited by the prospect of experiencing life on a ranch and playing cowboys for the summer. Their adventure begins when they receive an invitation from Mr. Claxton, the owner of the ranch, and the boys are eager to embark on their new journey full of potential thrills and dangers of the Wild West.  The opening of the novel sets a lively and adventurous tone as Frank shares the thrilling news of their ranch trip with his friends. Their excitement spills over into playful banter, showcasing their youthful energy and eagerness to explore new frontiers. The boys are depicted as close friends with distinct personalities: Frank is the leader, Bob is the prankster, and Sammy is the dreamer, always looking for mysteries to solve. As they prepare for the trip, their imaginative discussions about cowboys, treasure, and the potential dangers they might face contribute to a vibrant atmosphere that invites readers into their world of youthful adventure and camaraderie. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74738,500,'Reading ease score: 90.9 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74738,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74738,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74739,520,'"A Military Dictionary: or, Explanation of the Several Systems of Discipline of Different Kinds of Troops" by William Duane is a comprehensive military reference published in the early 19th century. This work serves as a guide to military terminology, principles of fortification, and the various strategies employed in the disciplines of infantry, artillery, and cavalry. It also provides insights into American military regulations and modern tactical improvements, making it particularly relevant for military institutions and educators in the United States.  At the start of the text, Duane outlines the necessity for a thorough understanding of military science, especially in light of past failures and misconceptions prevalent in American military practices. He discusses the decline of military knowledge and the inadequacies of existing instructional texts, emphasizing how this has contributed to a poorly organized militia. The opening portion elaborates on the need for comprehensive training and discipline, using historical examples to illustrate the critical importance of effective military education and preparedness, especially as conflicts loom on the horizon. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74739,500,'Reading ease score: 66.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74739,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74739,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74740,520,'"Suomen apostoli" by Hilda Huntuvuori is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story likely follows the life of a character named Henrik, exploring his experiences and development against a backdrop of historical events and cultural dynamics in Finland. The book seems to delve into themes of heritage, personal growth, and the struggles of a young nobleman.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to a young boy named Henrik, who lives in a grey castle, reflecting on his past and feeling the loss of his father. As he plays with his friends from the village, he eagerly awaits the return of his mother and indulges in imaginative games, embodying different characters from stories he has heard. The opening chapters provide an intimate depiction of Henrik’s childhood, bridging the gap between a serene past and the uncertainties of the present, all while hinting at the conflicts that may arise as he matures into a young man destined for great things. The initial scenes are filled with vivid descriptions of his surroundings and rich interactions with family and friends, setting the stage for Henrik''s journey and the unfolding historical narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74740,500,'Reading ease score: 44.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74740,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74740,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74741,520,'"Horse-hoeing Husbandry: or, an Essay on the Principles of Vegetation and Tillage" by Jethro Tull is a scientific publication written in the early 18th century. The work lays out Tull''s innovative method of agriculture, focusing on principles of tillage, vegetation, and the benefits of using specialized instruments for better crop yield. It aims to advocate for a new approach to farming that would increase productivity while reducing costs.  The opening of the text consists of a preface followed by an introduction to Tull’s theories on agricultural practices. It discusses the shortcomings of traditional farming methods and highlights the significance of his principles, such as horse-hoeing and the use of drills for sowing seeds. Tull emphasizes the need for farmers to embrace new techniques to improve their yields, particularly in light of economic pressures. The text persuades readers to reconsider conventional methods and introduces various instruments designed to enhance efficiency in cultivation, hinting at the profound shift in agricultural practices he proposes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74741,500,'Reading ease score: 53.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74741,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74741,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74742,520,'"Here and Beyond" by Edith Wharton is a fictional work likely written in the early 20th century, as indicated by its publication date in 1926. The book explores themes of memory, loss, and the specter of the past through its central character, who is drawn into a complicated narrative involving ghosts and missed connections. The story immerses readers in the complexities of human relationships and the lingering impact of death.  The opening of the narrative establishes a sense of unease and unpredictability as the protagonist grapples with a troubling memory. After an illness, the protagonist revisits a lonely place in Brittany, where social obligations lead him to seek out Mary Pask, the sister of an old friend. However, the visit takes a supernatural turn when he discovers that Mary Pask has died, yet he finds her somehow present and engaged in conversation with him. This initial scene sets a tone of ambiguity and tension, paving the way for a deeper exploration of the boundaries between life and death, as well as the protagonist’s attempts to reconcile his past with the chilling reality of mortality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74742,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74742,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74742,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74743,520,'"Kolmen teinin lauluja" by Heikki Asunta, Martti Merenmaa, and Einari Vuorela is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. This book captures the essence of youth, articulating feelings of longing, love, and introspection through evocative imagery and lyrical language. The poems reflect on the complexities of growing up and the emotional landscapes that accompany adolescence.  The collection presents a diverse array of themes, often exploring the struggles of youth against the backdrop of nature and existential questions. Each poet contributes a unique voice, with Heikki Asunta offering reflections on autumn and loss, Martti Merenmaa discussing the beauty of nature and the passage of time, and Einari Vuorela articulating a sense of yearning and exploration. The poems combine to paint a rich tapestry of youthful experience, invoking sentiments of nostalgia and the transient nature of life. The interplay between personal emotion and broader existential themes creates a thoughtful reflection on the journey of adolescence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74743,500,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74743,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74744,520,'"The Windfall" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the early 20th century. This work explores themes of aspiration and the clash between urban and rural life through the eyes of the central character, Hilary Lloyd, a showman who embarks on a journey to run a street fair in the remote town of Colbury located amidst the grandeur of the Great Smoky Mountains. As he struggles to generate interest in his fair, the narrative hints at the complex dynamics between the characters, particularly between Lloyd and the townsfolk, who view his enterprise with skepticism.  At the start of the story, Hilary Lloyd arrives in Colbury, facing the daunting challenge of promoting his street fair in an isolated, indifferent town. He is accompanied by his partner Haxon, who is disheartened by the lack of enthusiasm from the local populace and the overwhelming beauty of the surrounding mountains, which contrasts starkly with their dire situation. As the fair preparations unfold amidst physical labor and local commentary, Lloyd''s hope battles his sense of impending failure. During a moment of solitude, he encounters Clotilda Pinnott, a local girl, and is captivated by her grace, further complicating his feelings as he grapples with the impending storm—both literally and metaphorically—as he promotes the attractions of his fair while assessing his uncertain place within this rural community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74744,500,'Reading ease score: 66.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74744,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74744,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74745,520,'"The Weary Blues" by Langston Hughes is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century, specifically during the 1920s. The book emphasizes the experience of African American life, particularly showcasing themes of struggle, joy, identity, and the rich cultural heritage of Black America, including elements of jazz and blues music.  In this collection, Hughes paints a vivid portrait of inner city life, capturing the rhythm and mood of Harlem during the Harlem Renaissance. The poems explore a wide range of subjects, from the melancholy of the titular "Weary Blues" to the lively scenes of a Harlem cabaret in "Jazzonia." His work reflects personal experiences and broader societal issues, such as race relations and the African American experience, while infusing music and emotional depth throughout. Notable pieces like "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" emphasize the historical roots and deep cultural heritage of African Americans, while the poignant "Mother to Son" conveys a message of resilience and perseverance in the face of hardship. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74745,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Weary_Blues',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74745,500,'Reading ease score: 90.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74745,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74745,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74746,520,'"Esther: A Story of the Oregon Trail" by Ann S. Stephens is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative centers on Esther Morse, a beautiful young woman, as she embarks on an adventure along the Oregon Trail, encountering both the wonders and dangers of the untamed American frontier. The story blends themes of exploration, survival, and cultural encounters, reflecting the complexities of life during this pivotal period in American history.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to a lovely morning scene where a caravan of covered wagons is set up against the backdrop of a vibrant prairie. The protagonist, Esther, is depicted as a spirited and beautiful young woman who yearns for some freedom from the confines of camp life. She steps away from her camp and begins to explore the surrounding nature, but her wanderlust leads her into a precarious situation where she encounters an Indian girl, Waupee. Waupee warns her of impending danger from the Sioux warrior, Black Eagle, who has set his sights on her. The opening sets the stage for a blend of adventure and romance as Esther grapples with the threats from both nature and man, foreshadowing the dangerous journey ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74746,500,'Reading ease score: 78.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74746,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74746,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74747,520,'"Varens en mos" by J. R. Kloosterman is a collection of poetry and prose written in the late 19th century. The work explores themes of nature, spirituality, and human emotion through various lyrical expressions, capturing the essence of the natural world and its connection to divine creation. The poems reflect on personal experiences, the beauty of landscapes, and a philosophical contemplation on life and death.  The opening of "Varens en mos" presents the reader with a series of poems that celebrate the beauty and intricacies of nature. The first poem, "Mijn Lied," expresses a deep appreciation for the natural surroundings, invoking imagery of dark woods and blooming fields. This is followed by reflections on the harmony of nature and the human spirit''s responses to it, as seen in verses on the tranquility of summer nights and the splendor of seasonal changes. The text sets the tone for a work steeped in reverence for the earth, underscoring the interconnectedness of human emotion and the natural world—a theme that is likely to resonate throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74747,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74747,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74747,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74748,520,'"Straws and Prayer-Books; Dizain des Diversions" by James Branch Cabell is a literary work that seems to blend essay and narrative, likely written in the early 20th century. The book delves into themes of the artistic process, exploring the motivations behind writing, the nature of fictional worlds, and the relationship between the author and the reader. Central figures in the opening passages include John Charteris, a character who expresses frustration over being a minor character in what he believes should be the author''s narrative, setting up a meta-conversation about the role of the author and the nature of storytelling.  The opening of "Straws and Prayer-Books" introduces us to a dialogue between the narrator and John Charteris, who feels overlooked as a character in the narrative. This conversation leads to musings on the purpose of writing and the author''s motivations, suggesting that the act of writing is often a means of entertaining oneself rather than the audience. As they contemplate the essence of literature, Charteris critiques the common perception of authorship and questions the significance of why stories are told. The dialogue is humorous, philosophical, and reflective, serving as a prelude to exploring the broader implications of art, storytelling, and perhaps even the existential nature of creation itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74748,500,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74748,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74748,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74749,520,'"Du doute à la foi" by François Tournebize is a theological treatise written in the late 19th century. This work focuses on the intersection of science and religion, exploring the necessity of faith in the context of human existence and morality. Tournebize delves into the essential need for belief, particularly within a Catholic framework, providing a comprehensive discourse aimed at those struggling with doubt and skepticism.  The opening of this treatise sets the stage for a profound discussion on the inherent human longing to believe. Tournebize introduces the concept that faith is not merely an option but a vital necessity for a fulfilling and virtuous life. He addresses the anguish of doubt faced by individuals, particularly those raised in environments rich with Catholic teachings, who feel they lack the gift of faith or lament its loss. Through his arguments, he suggests that without faith, true virtue and happiness are elusive, emphasizing the transformative power of belief amidst the inevitable struggles of existence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74749,500,'Reading ease score: 63.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74749,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74749,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74750,520,'"Coming of Age in Samoa" by Margaret Mead is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This pioneering ethnographic study investigates the lives and psychological experiences of adolescent girls in Samoan society, contrasting their development with that of their American counterparts in the context of their cultural norms and practices. The book seeks to understand whether the challenges associated with adolescence are inherent to this developmental stage or influenced by societal factors.  The opening of the text introduces readers to Mead’s immersive journey in Samoa, where she dedicates her research to the young girls of the Taū region. She discusses the prevailing theoretical perspectives on adolescence in Western civilization and the significant role of cultural context. Mead outlines her method of anthropological investigation, emphasizing her intent to engage deeply with the local community and their way of life. The introductory chapters set the stage for her detailed observations, juxtaposing the behaviors and life experiences of Samoan youth against Western notions of adolescence, ultimately posing the pivotal question of how much of what is deemed "normal" in adolescence stems from cultural expectations rather than natural development. Mead''s work aims to highlight the diversity of human experience through contrasting cultures and their influence on emotional and psychological growth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74750,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coming_of_Age_in_Samoa',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74750,500,'Reading ease score: 55.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74750,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74750,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74751,520,'"Anthology of Modern Indian Poetry" by Gwendoline Goodwin is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. This anthology presents a diverse range of voices from Indian poets who explore themes of spirituality, identity, and the interplay between Eastern and Western influences in their work. The poems reflect the rich cultural tapestry of India, encompassing various faiths and emotional landscapes.  The opening of this anthology begins with an engaging preface that discusses the evolution of contemporary Indian poetry and the unique challenges faced by poets in merging traditional Indian themes with modern ideals. It highlights figures such as Sarojini Naidu and Muhammad Iqbal, who encapsulate the spirit of India through their expressive writings. Goodwin delves into the significance of the poet''s journey from self-expression to a profound spiritual awakening, inviting readers to contemplate the depth of emotion, cultural heritage, and self-discovery that permeates the verses. The introductory section sets the tone for a collection rich in beauty and introspection, while presenting an invocation that articulates the quest for unity with the divine. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74751,500,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74751,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74751,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74752,520,'"Suurten metsien salasta: Pohjoiskarjalaisia kertomuksia" by Simo Eronen is a collection of Northern Karelian stories written in the early 20th century. This work captures the essence of rural life in North Karelia, reflecting the connections between its inhabitants and the surrounding wilderness. The narratives likely explore themes of nature, survival, and human emotion, centered around various characters who navigate both external challenges and internal conflicts.  The opening of the book presents a gripping tale titled "Kyttä-Larin kuolinhiihto," following Kyttä-Lari as he embarks on a solitary hunting expedition through the deep forests of Ilomantsi. As he tracks a wily lynx, the narrative delves into Lari’s physical struggles against the harsh winter conditions, highlighted by detailed descriptions of his exhaustion and determination. The tension builds as he faces both the demanding environment and the instinctual challenges posed by his prey, setting the stage for a profound exploration of the human spirit in the wild. This opening captures the vividness of the Finnish landscape and the resilience required to thrive within it, attracting readers interested in stories of adventure and connection to nature. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74752,500,'Reading ease score: 41.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74752,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74752,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74753,520,'"The Well in the Wood" by Bert Leston Taylor is a whimsical children''s tale written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young girl named Buddie, her talking dog, Colonel, and their encounters with various anthropomorphic animals in a fantastical wood filled with enchantment and humor. The narrative promises a delightful exploration of nature, friendship, and the adventures that await in the unknown.  At the start of "The Well in the Wood," Buddie is enjoying a sunny day throwing sticks for her dog, Colonel, near the edge of a forest. While collecting flowers, she unwittingly discovers the mysterious Enchanter''s Nightshade, leading to a magical transformation where Colonel gains the ability to speak. Their adventures begin as Colonel proposes visiting his lazy beaver friend, setting them off on a journey through the enchanting wood where they encounter other charming creatures like the Laziest Beaver and a witty rabbit, all while pondering whimsical questions about life and nature. The opening sets a whimsical tone, inviting readers into a world filled with enchanting possibilities through Buddie''s eyes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74753,500,'Reading ease score: 82.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74753,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74753,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74754,520,'"Elizabeth, Betsy, and Bess—Schoolmates" by Amy Ella Blanchard is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows three schoolgirl friends—Elizabeth, Betsy, and Bess—as they navigate their school days, friendships, and imaginative adventures. The narrative provides a glimpse into childhood experiences, friendships, and the dynamics of young girls in a school setting, filled with creativity and the anticipation of holidays.  The opening of the story sets a warm and cheerful tone as it introduces the schoolroom where Miss Jewett, the teacher, engages her students by decorating the classroom for Thanksgiving. The girls, particularly Elizabeth, share their admiration for their teacher''s talents and express their excitement for the upcoming holiday. As the girls enjoy a lunch together, they reflect on their friendships, personal experiences, and the dynamics within their small group. This portion establishes their personalities and the foundations of their relationships, hinting at the kind of playful yet heartfelt interactions that will likely characterize the rest of the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74754,500,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74754,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74755,520,'"A Story Teller''s Story" by Sherwood Anderson is a memoir written in the early 20th century. This autobiographical work chronicles the experiences and reflections of an American writer as he navigates his imaginative world, recounting the memories of his upbringing and the struggles that shaped him. The narrative explores the relationships within his family, particularly focusing on his father, mother, and siblings, as well as the broader themes of poverty, aspiration, and the quest for identity in a changing America.  The opening of the memoir presents a vivid portrayal of the author''s mid-American childhood, detailing the poverty that shaded his family life but also the warmth and humor that pervaded their experiences. Anderson paints a picture of his father as a failed artist striving for significance amid their economic hardships, while his mother is depicted as a nurturing yet mysterious figure. The youthful narrator reflects on poignant memories of childhood antics, sibling dynamics, and the bittersweet nature of their existence, emphasizing the juxtaposition between aspirations and reality. This vivid reminiscence sets the stage for a deeper exploration of art, family, and the writer''s own evolving identity throughout the memoir. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74755,500,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74755,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74755,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74756,520,'"Aztec Place-Names: Their Meaning and Mode of Composition" by Frederick Starr is an academic publication created in the early 20th century. This book focuses on the methodology of analyzing and understanding Aztec geographical names, providing insights into their compositions and meanings. It serves as a reference for students and scholars interested in linguistics, anthropology, and history, particularly in the context of Mesoamerican cultures.  In this work, Starr presents an extensive list of Aztec place-names, each accompanied by its meaning and a breakdown of the components that form the name. Drawing from sources such as Agustin de la Rosa and Antonio Peñafiel, the book details the linguistic structure behind these names, illustrating how various elements combine to convey specific geographical features or cultural significance. Rules of composition are outlined, guiding readers in analyzing similar names, while a diverse array of examples demonstrates the richness of the Mexican linguistic heritage. Overall, the book serves both as a practical guide and a scholarly resource for those delving into Aztec nomenclature. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74756,500,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74756,456);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74756,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74757,520,'"Viennese Medley" by Edith O''Shaughnessy is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story explores the life of Frau Ildefonse Stacher, a widowed woman of the Viennese middle class, who faces the harsh realities of post-war life. Set against a backdrop of social and economic upheaval, the book delves into themes of loss, familial ties, and endurance as Frau Stacher navigates her changing circumstances.  At the start of "Viennese Medley," we meet Tante Ilde, who feels stripped of her identity and dignity in the aftermath of war, having lost not only her wealth but also her place within her family. The narrative introduces her close relationship with her niece, Corinne, as they confront the painful reality of having to sell the family home. As they make difficult decisions regarding their future, Tante Ilde''s reflections on her past life reveal a deep sense of sorrow and resilience. Throughout these beginning chapters, the reader is drawn into the emotional landscape of a woman grappling with her displacement, her memories, and the uncertain future that lies ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74757,500,'Reading ease score: 75.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74757,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74757,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74758,520,'"Satukirja lapsille: Norjalaisia kansansatuja" by Asbjørnsen, Moe, and Wyyrylinen is a collection of Norwegian folk tales written in the late 19th century. The anthology presents a variety of enchanting stories filled with anthropomorphic characters such as a goat, a pig, a hare, and a cunning fox, each embarking on adventures that reflect moral lessons and the rich tradition of storytelling.  The opening of the collection introduces the tale of a goat and a pig who decide to leave their farm to build a life for themselves in the forest after realizing their fate at the hands of their farmer. Along their journey, they gather various animal companions, including a goose and a hare, who contribute to building their home. As they settle into their new life, they encounter dangers, such as a hungry wolf, highlighting themes of friendship, survival, and the importance of unity against common threats. This beginning sets the stage for a series of imaginative tales that promise to entertain and impart wisdom through folklore. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74758,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norwegian_Folktales',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74758,500,'Reading ease score: 55.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74758,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74758,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74759,520,'"In the Tennessee Mountains" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set against the backdrop of the Appalachian region, the story revolves around the struggles and trials of its inhabitants, particularly focusing on Cynthia Ware and Evander Price as they navigate personal and societal conflicts within their close-knit mountain community.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Cynthia, who reflects on her life in Lost Creek Valley, feeling stagnant and purposeless. The narrative reveals her intricate dynamics with her mother and touches upon the local gossip surrounding Evander Price, a young blacksmith deemed both talented and difficult. The opening portrays Cynthia''s emotional landscape, her connection to the land, and the brewing tensions in her relationships, particularly involving Evander, who is deeply affected by his trials and ambitions. As she witnesses the goings-on in her life, themes of love, loss, and fighting for justice unfold, setting the stage for a rich exploration of character and community in the Tennessee mountains. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74759,500,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74759,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74759,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74760,520,'"Aurelia: Itämainen kuvaus Kristuksen ajoilta" by Hilda Huntuvuori is a historical novella written in the early 20th century. This book explores the themes surrounding early Christianity through the character of Aurelia, a woman from a noble Roman family, who has been deeply affected by her past experiences and loss. It provides insights into the socio-religious environment during the time of Christ and touches upon faith, redemption, and the struggles of the early Christian community.  In the narrative, Aurelia grapples with her tumultuous emotions stemming from her lost love for Antonius and her affluent life in Rome. Seeking solace, she travels to the East, where she learns of Jesus and his transformative teachings. The story unfolds as she encounters figures from the early Christian faith, including Jesus himself, who offers her redemption and love. Eventually, she embraces her new identity and purpose, reflecting on her past and the joy of newfound faith as she helps bring hope to others. The overarching message emphasizes the power of love and compassion to heal wounds, resonating deeply amid the trials of life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74760,500,'Reading ease score: 44.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74760,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74760,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74761,520,'"Kun piiat ovat lakossa: Ivallinen ilveily 3:na näytöksenä" by Martti Wuori is a play written in the early 20th century. The narrative unfolds in Helsinki and revolves around the social implications of a domestic workers'' strike, reflecting the dynamics between different social classes and gender roles. The central characters include Tuure Holm, a government official, and his wife, Hertta, who finds herself embroiled in the complexities arising from the strike.  The opening of the play introduces us to the Holm household, depicting a mundane morning disrupted by the lack of domestic help due to the ongoing strike. Tuure struggles to manage daily chores and is frustrated by Hertta''s commitments to the strike committee, which leaves him with little assistance at home. As the conversation unravels, themes of gender roles, social responsibility, and class conflict emerge, particularly through the quarrels between Tuure and Hertta regarding household duties and the strike''s legitimacy. The arrival of their friend Juuso Karpén and the unexpected visit from Helmi, a relative with her own troubles, further complicates the situation, setting the stage for a comedic yet poignant exploration of the characters’ lives amidst the social upheaval. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74761,500,'Reading ease score: 63.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74761,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74761,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74762,520,'"Vers la lumière... impressions vécues : affaire Dreyfus" by Séverine is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book deals with the Dreyfus Affair, a political scandal in France that highlighted issues of anti-Semitism and miscarriage of justice, centering around the wrongful conviction of Captain Alfred Dreyfus for treason. Séverine, likely a contemporary observer of the events, reflects on themes of honor, bravery, and the moral responsibilities of military authority throughout her narrative.  The opening of the work reveals the author’s initial perspective on the Dreyfus case, where she expresses her early belief in Dreyfus''s guilt, a view that eventually evolves. In this portion, she recounts the ironies inherent in the military’s conduct, particularly criticizing an officer’s despicable act of violence against a captive. Séverine delves into the ramifications of such behaviors on the integrity of the military, urging that the duty of military leaders extends beyond authority to moral accountability. She intertwines personal reflections with historical commentary, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of the complexities surrounding the Dreyfus Affair. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74762,500,'Reading ease score: 70.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74762,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74762,457);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74763,520,'"Lost Gip" by Hesba Stretton is a novel written in the late 19th century. The book tells the poignant story of a young boy, Sandy, and his desperate efforts to care for and eventually search for his lost baby sister, Gip, amid the stark and harrowing realities of poverty in London''s East End. The narrative delves into themes of familial love, neglect, and the harsh conditions faced by the impoverished, presenting a critique of society''s indifference.  At the start of the story, we are introduced to Sandy, who is deeply affected by the birth of Gip, a girl whom he adores despite their bleak living conditions. The opening chapters establish the dire environment they inhabit—characterized by filth, decay, and parental neglect—along with Sandy''s demonstrations of care as he tends to his sister amidst these challenges. The tragedy escalates when Sandy''s mother, a drunkard, becomes incapable of caring for Gip, leading to the child''s disappearance. Sandy''s frantic search for his sister, coupled with his slowly emerging understanding of compassion and hope through conversations with others in his life, forms the emotional core of this narrative. Although the beginning highlights despair, it sets in motion Sandy''s resolve to protect and find Gip, making for a gripping and heartfelt read. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74763,500,'Reading ease score: 85.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74763,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74763,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74764,520,'"Bibliographical History of Electricity & Magnetism, Chronologically Arranged" by Paul Fleury Mottelay is a scholarly historical account written in the early 20th century. This extensive work chronicles the development of electricity and magnetism from ancient times to the early 19th century, highlighting significant figures and discoveries in the field of natural philosophy. It seeks to provide a comprehensive bibliography and history of the key milestones in the understanding and application of these scientific principles.  The opening of the book introduces the ambitious scope of Mottelay''s project, reflecting on the vast timeline it covers—from 2637 B.C., where the use of the magnetic compass is first recorded in ancient China, to 1821, marking Michael Faraday''s contributions to electromagnetism. The introduction emphasizes the importance of original sources for studying the history of science and presents a chronological arrangement of entries that document influential scholars and pivotal discoveries. The foreword by Sir Richard T. Glazebrook sets the tone for the scholarly journey, revealing both the dedication of the author and the significance of the themes explored in this definitive work on the history of electricity and magnetism. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74764,500,'Reading ease score: 64.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74764,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74764,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74765,520,'"A Theory of Pure Design: Harmony, Balance, Rhythm" by Denman Waldo Ross is a scholarly treatise on the principles underlying design in fine arts, written in the early 20th century. Ross, an educator at Harvard University, seeks to clarify and articulate the often intangible concepts of art through definitions and classifications, aiming to bridge artistic expression with scientific understanding. The work is focused on elucidating how elements such as harmony, balance, and rhythm contribute to the overall structure of works of art, and how these principles can be understood and applied.  The opening of the text sets the stage for Ross''s theoretical approach to design, emphasizing the need to define the terms and principles that govern artistic practice. He differentiates between "Pure Design," which focuses on achieving order and beauty for their own sake, and "Representation," which serves to express meanings and truths through art. Ross introduces the foundational concepts of order in design, noting that harmony, balance, and rhythm are essential for creating appealing aesthetic experiences. The introduction reinforces that while art may seem purely subjective, it is indeed built upon recognizable and definable patterns that can be analyzed, understood, and discussed within a scientific framework. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74765,500,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74765,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74765,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74766,520,'"Kunnon kansalaisia: Viisitoista tarinaa" by Kálmán Mikszáth is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The book explores various aspects of village life in Hungary, highlighting the relationships, struggles, and peculiar events that occur within a small community. Each story is likely to reflect on moral lessons and societal values as depicted through the lives of its characters, often focusing on relatable individuals caught in revealing and sometimes humorous situations.  At the start of the collection, the narrative introduces a quaint Hungarian village preparing for a storm, emphasizing the communal activities and superstitions of the villagers. Central to this tale is a character named Ruuko-Jooseppi, who tries to ward off impending doom by ringing church bells, amidst a tumultuous atmosphere filled with animals reacting to the impending storm. The story follows the unfolding drama surrounding a mysterious floating chest that stirs curiosity and gossip among the villagers, leading to tensions and speculations, particularly regarding its contents that resonate with themes of loss, longing, and the unpredictable nature of life in a close-knit community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74766,500,'Reading ease score: 52.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74766,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74766,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74767,520,'"That Worlds May Live" by Nelson S. Bond is a science fiction novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the main character, Dr. Gary Lane, and his team of scientists who embark on a daring quest to save Earth from imminent doom after a shocking discovery during their lunar expedition indicates that the universe may be contracting, endangering their solar system.   The opening of the book introduces readers to a thrilling setting where the characters return from a trip to Luna, only to be faced with the gravity of their findings. Gary Lane reveals their pivotal discovery that challenges longstanding cosmological theories, suggesting catastrophic consequences for their galaxy. As the narrative unfolds, the team grapples with skepticism from colleagues and the machinations of a mysterious enemy, threatening their findings and lives. Amid the scientific intrigue and impending danger, the dynamics between the characters develop, notably the tension between Gary and his new assistant, Miss Nora Powell, as they forge ahead into uncharted territory. Their adventure escalates quickly, setting the stage for a broader exploration of survival and truth in the cosmos. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74767,500,'Reading ease score: 76.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74767,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74768,520,'"The Swing of the Pendulum" by Adriana Spadoni is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Jean Norris, a recent college graduate, as she navigates her emotions and aspirations amid the backdrop of societal expectations and familial duties. Through Jean’s experiences with her friends and family, the narrative explores themes of ambition, personal freedom, and the complexities of relationships.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Jean Norris on her graduation day, feeling the weight of her academic achievements mixed with anxiety about her future. As she interacts with her friend Patricia and reflects on her mother’s oppressive sense of duty, it becomes clear that Jean feels trapped between her desires and her obligations. The graduates'' celebrations soon give way to a sense of impending monotony as Jean grapples with thoughts of teaching, familial responsibilities, and the encroachment of societal norms on her individuality. The opening chapters effectively set the tone for a character-driven exploration of self-discovery, making the reader curious about how Jean will reconcile her ambitions with the expectations placed upon her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74768,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74768,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74768,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74769,520,'"The Woman of To-morrow" by Helen M. Winslow is a reflective work written in the early 20th century. This book appears to be a collection of essays that explore the evolving role and responsibilities of women in the modern era. The title suggests an examination of how women can embrace their potential as agents of change and progress in society.  The opening of the text poses a contemplative question regarding the future of women, reflecting on the past achievements and the ongoing struggles faced by women in various fields—education, journalism, and medicine. Winslow emphasizes the importance of women''s contributions to improving society and critiques the complacency that can arise from achieving certain milestones. She calls upon her readers, particularly women, to recognize their individual and collective responsibilities toward creating a better future and to develop their moral and social influence. The demands of their roles are addressed with a tone that inspires both introspection and action, setting the stage for a thoughtful examination of women''s potential in the unfolding social landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74769,500,'Reading ease score: 63.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74769,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74769,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74770,520,'"The Greatest Story in the World" by Horace G. Hutchinson is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work aims to provide a comprehensive outline of key events in human history from its earliest times to the establishment of the Roman Empire and the fall of Jerusalem. The book serves as an educational resource for students and educators, focusing on significant historical narratives rather than a plethora of names and dates.  At the start of the narrative, Hutchinson emphasizes the significance of the Mediterranean Sea as a crucial backdrop to the development of early civilizations, particularly focusing on the regions around the Nile, Euphrates, and Tigris rivers. He discusses the transition of humans from nomadic hunters and pastoralists to settled agricultural societies and how these developments laid the foundations for complex societies, such as those in Egypt and Babylonia. The opening chapters introduce vital themes in human history, including the evolution of tool-making, early forms of writing, and the establishment of significant empires, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of their cultures, religions, and interactions with one another. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74770,500,'Reading ease score: 72.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74770,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74770,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74771,520,'"The Greatest Story in the World, Period II: The Further Story of the Old World up to the Discovery of the New" by Horace G. Hutchinson is a historical narrative written in the early 20th century. This volume continues the exploration of history from AD 100 up to around 1500, focusing on the interplay of cultures, power dynamics, and significant events during the decline of the Roman Empire and the rise of various barbarian tribes in Europe.   The opening of this volume sets the stage for the transition from a well-established Roman Empire to a landscape marked by upheaval and transformation as barbarian tribes invade and settle in European territories. Hutchinson introduces Britain, emphasizing its historical position in relation to the Roman Empire and documenting the character and societal structures of the native Brythons, who faced invasions from various groups. Key events include the initial invasions led by the Romans and the resulting socio-political changes as the Empire struggled to maintain its grip amidst dissent and external pressures, leading up to a significant transformation of early British society under the Anglo-Saxons. This introductory part lays the foundation for a more extensive account of the European historical tapestry that unfolds throughout the rest of the work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74771,500,'Reading ease score: 71.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74771,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74771,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74772,520,'"The Greatest Story in the World, Period III: The Development of the Modern World" by Horace G. Hutchinson is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This volume serves as the culmination of a three-part series focusing on significant historical events and figures from the past five centuries, particularly emphasizing the role of the Anglo-Saxon race in shaping the modern age. It addresses topics ranging from colonial expansion and conflicts to cultural and technological advancements that influenced the course of history.  At the start of the book, Hutchinson outlines the profound transformations that occurred at the end of the 15th century, focusing on the adventures of explorers like Christopher Columbus and Vasco da Gama, who paved the way for global exploration and trade. The opening portion discusses Columbus''s so-called discovery of America, which, while monumental, is placed in context by recognizing the prior and arguably greater navigational achievements of da Gama. The author sets the stage for a thorough discussion of the interconnected stories of the Old and New Worlds, the colonization efforts of European powers, and the ensuing cultural exchanges and conflicts that defined this transformative period of history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74772,500,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74772,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74772,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74773,520,'"The Freed Boy in Alabama" by Anne M. Mitchell is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story follows a young boy named Tom Alson, who, after the Civil War, embarks on a journey of self-discovery, education, and responsibility as he leaves his home in Huntsville, Alabama, to work on a plantation. The narrative delves into themes of faith, education, and the struggles against poverty, as Tom grapples with the decision to prioritize his schooling over immediate labor opportunities.  At the start of the novel, the reader is introduced to Tom, who is contemplating his future while balancing the pressing circumstances of his family life. As he interacts with a man seeking workers for a nearby plantation, Tom reveals his dedication to education, much to the chagrin of those around him who doubt the value of his academic pursuits. He ultimately decides to leave for the plantation, motivated by a desire to work for a higher purpose, which he equates with serving Jesus. The opening chapters set the stage for a transformative summer filled with challenges as Tom tries to fulfill his longing for knowledge and spiritual fulfillment while also helping his community, marking the beginning of his impactful journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74773,500,'Reading ease score: 77.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74773,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74773,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74774,520,'"People of the Veil" by Francis Rennell Rodd is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the habits and organization of the Wandering Tuareg tribes in the Central Sahara, particularly focusing on their way of life in the Air mountains. Through Rodd’s investigative journey, the work aims to shed light on the cultural and social structures of the Tuareg people, as well as their historical interactions with surrounding communities.  The opening of the book sets the stage for a detailed examination of the Sahara, where Rodd expresses his intention to delve into the ecological and anthropological aspects of the region. He reflects on his own travel experiences and emphasizes the significance of the Tuareg tribes, who have long occupied the arid landscapes of the Sahara. Rodd discusses geographical distinctions within the Sahara, differentiating between its various terrains, and introduces the complexities of life in the Air mountains. He hints at the social hierarchy among the Tuareg, the unique features of their dress, particularly the veiled appearance of men, and the ways these tribes have adapted to their challenging environment. This opening portion establishes a foundation for understanding the intricate relationships between the landscape, culture, and history of the people who inhabit this unique region. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74774,500,'Reading ease score: 63.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74774,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74774,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74775,520,'"Viimeinen laiva: Kolminäytöksinen näytelmä" by Maila Talvio is a play written in the early 20th century. The narrative revolves around a group of characters, primarily within the Schultze family, as they grapple with personal relationships, hopes, and expectations on the day the last ship is set to depart. Themes of love, loss, and family dynamics set the stage for their intertwined lives.  At the start of the play, the characters are introduced in the domestic space of Rva Salava’s living room, where a tense atmosphere prevails. As they prepare for the day, which marks the departure of the last ship and signifies the end of summer, conversations reveal underlying tensions and unsaid emotions among family members. Amalia raises questions about romantic prospects, while Rva Salava reflects on the difficult decisions ahead. The characters'' interactions highlight a blend of hope and despair, as they navigate their aspirations and the potential changes that the ship’s departure signifies for their futures. This dynamic establishes a sense of anticipation for what is to come, promising a richly emotional exploration of their lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74775,500,'Reading ease score: 64.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74775,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74775,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74776,520,'"The Early Court of Queen Victoria" by Clare Jerrold is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book focuses on the formative years of Queen Victoria, presenting her upbringing and the complexities of her familial relationships during her early reign. It aims to humanize the often idealized image of Victoria, highlighting both her virtues and the challenges posed by her upbringing.  The opening of the book sets the stage by discussing the unpopularity of the Duchess of Kent, Victoria''s mother, among royal relatives and the broader societal implications of her strained relationships within the Guelph family. The narrative introduces the dynamics surrounding Victoria''s childhood, emphasizing her mother''s controlling nature and the impact this had on Victoria''s personality and future reign. Additionally, it details the perceptions and criticisms of public figures and society towards the Duchess and the royal family, outlining the challenges they faced during a politically turbulent time in England. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74776,500,'Reading ease score: 58.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74776,449);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74776,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74777,520,'"Markiisitar de Pompadour: Kuvaus Ludvig XV:n rakastajattaresta" by Dora Duncker is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book focuses on the life and influence of Jeanne d''Étioles, who becomes the mistress of King Louis XV of France, providing insight into her aspirations and the societal dynamics of the French court during that era.  At the start of the narrative, the scene is set in a cozy salon illuminated by a fireplace. We meet Jeanne, a young woman with ambitions to gain the attention of the king, along with her uncle, Herr Le Normant de Tournehem. There are discussions about Jeanne''s plans and hopes to secure her position in the king''s court, particularly in light of previous favorites who have passed. The interactions between Jeanne, her family, and her allies paint a picture of her determination and the challenges of navigating the complex world of royal favor. The opening hints at both her ambition and the potential opposition she faces as she aims for success amidst the changing tides of the court. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74777,500,'Reading ease score: 42.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74777,449);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74777,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74778,520,'"Keynotes" by George Egerton is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The work explores themes of femininity, personal struggle, and the complexities of human relationships, often through the lens of various female characters navigating their identities and societal expectations. The narratives delve into women''s emotional lives and their desires for love, freedom, and self-expression.  The opening of "Keynotes" presents a vivid vignette where a woman reflects on the incongruity of a man''s singing against the backdrop of nature''s beauty. This scene captures her blend of distaste and amusement, setting the tone for her complex character, who is intertwined with nature and imaginative thoughts. As she engages in conversation with a man who shows interest in fishing, their interaction reveals her multifaceted personality, which combines allure and intellectual independence. The dialogue hints at deeper themes concerning gender dynamics, attraction, and the intensity of female desire. This opening serves as an introduction to the stories that follow, likely exploring similar emotional and social complexities in the lives of different women. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74778,500,'Reading ease score: 77.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74778,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74778,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74779,520,'"Contes pour lire au crépuscule" by Avesnes is a collection of melancholic short stories written in the early 20th century. The collection appears to explore themes of love, loss, and nostalgia, with a particular focus on the complexities of human emotions and relationships, as suggested by the reflections of the author directed at women over thirty who can appreciate the nuances of sorrow and yearning.   The opening of the book establishes a contemplative atmosphere and introduces the narrator''s reflections on life and emotional experience. It opens with poetic verses that invite readers to embrace the melancholy of the evening, setting the stage for the stories that follow. The narrator aims to resonate with women who have experienced love and loss, invoking a sense of wistful reminiscence about past loves and life’s fleeting moments. An introductory character, Paul, is depicted as a deep thinker drawn to the memories of his childhood, haunted by the ghosts of past relationships. A vivid backdrop of an old manor and the theme of twilight further enhance the reflective quality of the narratives, suggesting a rich exploration of sentimentality and the passage of time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74779,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74779,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74779,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74780,520,'"The Illustrious Dr. Mathéus" by Erckmann-Chatrian is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story follows the character Frantz Mathéus, a country doctor in the rural town of Graufthal, as he grapples with his aspirations for intellectual greatness and a deep-seated desire to contribute meaningfully to humanity. The book delves into themes of personal duty and ambition, juxtaposed with the pleasures of a simple life.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Dr. Frantz Mathéus, a well-meaning but somewhat eccentric physician held back by his mundane routines and the expectations of his provincial life. As he reflects on his wasted potential and the discontent in his heart, an encounter with a traveling hawker reignites his aspiration to share his grand philosophical theories with the world. Mathéus decides to abandon his familiar life, leading to a comical yet poignant departure where he faces the emotional weight of leaving behind his loyal servant, Martha, and the patients he serves. The narrative sets the stage for his adventures ahead, revealing the internal conflicts that both drive and deter him from pursuing his grand philosophical ambitions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74780,500,'Reading ease score: 69.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74780,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74780,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74781,520,'"De drie vrouwen in het Heilige Woud" by Augusta de Wit is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around the profound themes of love, loss, and the search for hope, revolving around the lives of three women—Mboq-Inten, Samirah, and Inten—whose fates intertwine through the legend of a holy site and the supernatural influences surrounding it.  The opening portion of the book introduces the sacred forest of Sangean, revered by the local villagers, as a spiritual place linked to a wise king who lived as a hermit and whose legacy inspires many seeking guidance and healing. The narrative then shifts to the struggles of the three women, particularly focusing on Mboq-Inten''s longing for her daughter Inten, who has passed away, and Samirah, who grapples with her own heartache and societal pressures due to her childlessness. As they navigate their sorrows and desires, their stories converge, hinting at the possibility of miracles and connections that transcend the physical realm—a reflection of the themes that will unfold throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74781,500,'Reading ease score: 75.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74781,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74781,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74782,520,'"The Fate of Fenella" by Helen Mathers et al. is a collaborative novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative unfolds around the character of Fenella, a spirited young woman navigating a complex social landscape defined by flirtations, societal expectations, and romantic entanglements. The novel sets the stage for a tale of love, separation, and the challenges that arise when personal desires collide with societal norms.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Fenella at the Prospect Hotel in Harrogate, where she enjoys sunny days and playful banter with a coach driver named George. The opening chapter highlights her carefree attitude and charming personality, as she engages in lighthearted conversations while waiting for her carriage. However, underlying this buoyant exterior is a tumultuous emotional life, hinted at through her interactions with other characters, including her estranged husband, Frank Onslow, and her feelings about her son Ronny. The dynamic between Fenella and Frank becomes a focal point as the complexities of their past and the repercussions of their choices begin to unfold, foreshadowing a story rife with tension and emotional conflict. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74782,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fate_of_Fenella',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74782,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74782,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74783,520,'"Boynton Bicycle Railway System" by Boynton Bicycle Railway Company is a scientific publication likely written in the late 19th century. This book presents an innovative approach to railway transportation, focusing on the advantages of a bicycle-based railway system that emphasizes lightness, speed, and efficiency. The publication details the principles of design and operation behind the Boynton Bicycle Railway, promoting its potential advantages in terms of cost and performance compared to traditional rail systems.  In the book, the authors describe the unique design of the bicycle train cars, which are narrower and have a two-story structure, allowing them to carry more passengers while weighing significantly less than standard railway cars. The innovative use of materials like light steel and wood veneer is highlighted, along with the operational principles that permit higher speeds and reduced friction. Throughout the text, the authors discuss the economic benefits and safety improvements of the Boynton system, including its ability to operate efficiently on existing rail infrastructure, and they present evidence from trials that demonstrate its success in real-world applications. Overall, the book argues for the adoption of this novel system as a valuable advancement in railway transportation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74783,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boynton_Bicycle_Railroad',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74783,500,'Reading ease score: 56.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74783,437);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74783,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74784,520,'"Elämän helle: Runoja" by Huugo Jalkanen is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century, specifically in the aftermath of World War I. The book explores themes of love, nature, life, and the human condition, encapsulating emotions ranging from joy to sorrow. Jalkanen’s work reflects the cultural and historical milieu of Finland during this transformative period.  The collection is divided into thematic sections, each offering a variety of poetic forms that immerse readers in vivid imagery and heartfelt expressions. The poems celebrate the beauty of nature, exemplified in pieces like "Elämän helle," which captures the essence of life’s warmth and vibrancy, and "Juhannuslaulu," a festive summer song. Throughout the collection, Jalkanen reflects on the human experience, weaving together personal reflections with broader societal issues, particularly in the context of Finland''s struggle for independence and the deep longing for peace after the turmoil of war. Each poem serves as a testament to the enduring spirit of humanity and the redemptive power of love amidst life''s challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74784,500,'Reading ease score: 59.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74784,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74784,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74785,520,'"Le jour du Seigneur" by Ernest Hello is a theological treatise written in the late 19th century. This work reflects on the significance of the Sabbath and the spiritual implications of observing a day of rest, which Hello argues is essential for both individual well-being and societal harmony. The text emphasizes the connection between divine command and human action, suggesting that neglecting the Sabbath leads to spiritual decay and societal consequences.  Throughout the book, Hello explores the biblical foundations of the Sabbath, drawing comparisons between the creation story and contemporary human behavior. He argues that just as the Creator rested on the seventh day, humans too must honor this day to maintain balance in life. The author illustrates how the abandonment of this divine ordinance results in chaos and calamity, citing historical events as warnings. Hello''s discourse is rich with scriptural references and lively theological debate, urging readers to recognize the Sabbath not only as a day of rest but as a profound spiritual practice that sustains faith and morality in society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74785,500,'Reading ease score: 80.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74785,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74785,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74786,520,'"Historic Buildings: As Seen and Described by Great Writers" edited and translated by Esther Singleton is a collection of architectural essays and descriptions crafted in the early 20th century. This anthology showcases various historic buildings across different cultures and time periods, blending artistic appreciation with historical context. Readers can expect an exploration of famous edifices through the lenses of renowned writers, enhancing their understanding of the leading structures that shape our world''s heritage.  At the start of the book, the preface outlines the editorial principles of selection, emphasizing both the architectural beauty and historical significance of the buildings featured. It sets the groundwork for a diverse range of entries, notable both for their artistic representations and the rich narratives tied to their histories. The opening section introduces the Jumma Musjid in Delhi, detailing its grand architectural features while delving into a brief historical context of Delhi itself. The text describes the mosque''s imposing structure and its surroundings, reflecting on both the city''s vibrancy and its contrasting impoverished quarters, establishing a tone of exploration into the complexities of human experience reflected through architecture. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74786,500,'Reading ease score: 61.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74786,425);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74786,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74787,520,'"The Happy Tree" by Rosalind Murray is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story explores themes of youth, nostalgia, and the passage of time through the reflections of the protagonist, who experiences a sense of detachment from her life as she approaches her fortieth birthday. Central to the narrative are memories of her childhood and significant relationships, particularly with key figures like Hugo and Guy, as well as their shared idyllic moments at a place called Yearsly.  At the start of the novel, the protagonist observes the changing seasons and reflects on her life as she prepares to turn forty. There’s a poignant sense of loss as she realizes that her youth is irrevocably faded, yet she feels a peculiar calmness. Her thoughts drift back to her childhood at Yearsly, a cherished retreat, filled with vivid memories of family and friends, particularly Cousin Delia’s nurturing presence. As she recalls playful moments with Hugo and Guy, alongside the various activities that colored their lives, she grapples with the inevitability of change and the bittersweet nature of growing up. The opening establishes a reflective and introspective tone, drawing readers into the intricacies of personal history and the deep emotional connections that continue to influence her present. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74787,500,'Reading ease score: 90.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74787,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74787,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74788,520,'"Goethes Lebenskunst" by Wilhelm Bode is a biographical work written in the early 20th century. The book delves into the life, works, and philosophy of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, aiming to present him as a multifaceted human being rather than solely a literary giant. It appears that the author seeks to explore Goethe''s character, relationships, and the circumstances that shaped his creative journey.  The opening of the book establishes the author''s intention to provide a nuanced portrayal of Goethe, emphasizing the evolution of his understanding and interpretations over time. Bode reflects on the reasons behind his new edition, noting that his familiarity with Goethe''s life and environment has deepened since he first wrote it. The preface discusses Goethe''s career transitions from a lawyer to a literary figure under the patronage of Duke Karl August of Weimar, illustrating how his romanticized perception of a poet’s life contrasted with the practical realities of his time. Through this exploration, readers are set up for a detailed examination of Goethe''s personal and professional challenges, his social interactions, and how he navigated the dual roles of poet and civil servant. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74788,500,'Reading ease score: 66.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74788,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74788,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74789,520,'"La fortune de Fortuné : roman gai" by Pierre Billotey is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story seems to center around the main character, Fortuné Lorillard, a vagabond whose life is marked by misfortune and a tragic past filled with petty criminality. The opening sets up a humorous yet poignant narrative that suggests themes of class disparity and the human condition through the lens of comedy.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Fortuné Lorillard as he rides in a third-class train compartment, where he is met with disdain by the other passengers due to his disheveled appearance and strong odor. Despite this, he is depicted with a certain depth, suggesting a past filled with potential and failure. As the story unfolds, Fortuné captures the attention of both the narrator and the other characters through a series of misadventures, setting the stage for humorous interactions and explorations of his aspirations and dreams amidst the struggles of his current life. His mysterious letter, which he seems desperate to recover, hints at an important plot point that will likely drive both his character development and the narrative forward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74789,500,'Reading ease score: 74.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74789,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74789,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74790,520,'"De l’assassinat considéré comme un des Beaux-Arts" by Thomas De Quincey is a philosophical treatise that reflects on the nature of murder, written in the early 19th century. The work explores the idea of assassination as an art form, examining the aesthetic and moral implications of murder and how society’s view of it can be shaped by artistic principles. This unique perspective suggests that De Quincey is not just interested in the act of killing but also in its representation and critique in terms of taste and aesthetics.  At the start of the treatise, De Quincey introduces a fictional society that engages in the discussion and critique of murder as if it were a performance art. He provocatively suggests that viewing murder through an artistic lens can elevate the act to a level that provokes admiration rather than revulsion. The opening portion includes his warning against the moral implications of such a society, asserting his personal virtue while simultaneously dissecting the fascination with homicide. De Quincey''s tone mixes irony and intellectual seriousness, setting the stage for a deeper philosophical exploration of the relationship between morality, art, and the human condition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74790,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_Murder_Considered_as_one_of_the_Fine_Arts https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_l%27assassinat_consid%C3%A9r%C3%A9_comme_un_des_beaux-arts',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74790,500,'Reading ease score: 61.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74790,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74790,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74791,520,'"Round Robin" by Abbie Farwell Brown is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a group of young girls at a summer camp in Maine, focusing on themes of friendship, self-discovery, and the contrasts between different lifestyles. The main characters include six girls, each with distinct personalities, who anticipate the arrival of a new girl, Anne Poole, referred to as the "Golden Girl."   The opening of the book introduces the Warmth of summer in a small Maine town where six girls eagerly await the arrival of a boat and their newcomer. While they are similarly dressed, their personalities vary, hinting at the dynamics of friendship and competition that will play out. As they discuss the new girl and express apprehension about her wealth and attitude, the narrative sets the stage for Anne’s integration into the camp and her interactions with the girls, exploring social class and acceptance. The opening chapters build anticipation for the adventures and challenges these girls will face together in the idyllic but demanding setting of summer camp. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74791,500,'Reading ease score: 85.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74791,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74792,520,'"Cuming''s Tour to the Western Country (1807-1809)" by Fortescue Cuming is a historical account that was compiled in the early 20th century but reflects on travels from the early 19th century. The narrative captures Cuming''s extensive travels through the burgeoning regions of Ohio, Kentucky, the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, and parts of West Florida during the early days of American settlement. The text serves to provide insights into the social and economic conditions of the American West at the time and reflects Cuming''s observations about the land and its inhabitants.  At the start of the narrative, Cuming begins his journey on foot from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh, detailing his experiences and the landscape he encounters along the way. He describes various towns, rivers, and the people he meets, showcasing both the challenges and the beauty of the land. The opening chapters emphasize his interest in observing the natural environment, the emerging communities, and the unique customs of early settlers. As Cuming progresses in his journey, he paints a vivid picture of the contrasts between civilization and the wilderness, laying the groundwork for a deeper exploration of life in early 19th-century America. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74792,500,'Reading ease score: 60.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74792,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74792,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74793,520,'"What Happened to Tad" by Mary E. Ropes is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story centers around a young boy named Tadpole (Teddie Poole) who, feeling abandoned and mistreated by his harsh stepmother, decides to take drastic measures to escape his troubled home life. As he plots to care for his younger siblings while planning revenge against his stepmother, he unwittingly gets entangled in a series of misadventures that lead him far from home.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage for Tad''s struggles at home, highlighting his deep sorrow and sense of injustice towards his stepmother''s treatment of him and his siblings. After enduring yet another confrontation with his father over the matter, Tad resolves to leave home to escape his intolerable situation. He initially considers the possibility of revenge against his stepmother but instead takes the baby from her as a form of retaliation. However, this seemingly simple act spirals into a much larger predicament when the baby is lost, forcing Tad into a desperate escape from the harsh realities of his life. Filled with themes of childhood hardship and resilience, the beginning suggests a journey of self-discovery riddled with challenges and moral dilemmas that Tad must face. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74793,500,'Reading ease score: 85.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74793,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74793,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74794,520,'"Noarderljocht: histoaryske forbylding yn twa útkomsten, yn fersen by Douwe Kalma" is a historical poetic work authored by Douwe Kalma, likely created in the early 20th century. This book presents a dramatic narrative that intertwines themes of love, longing, and existential contemplation, set against the backdrop of the 17th century. The likely topic explores the struggles of individuals as they navigate their feelings of isolation and the powerful connection between humanity and nature.  The narrative primarily revolves around the character Frans Duco, a young nobleman grappling with intense emotions stemming from loss and existential dread after the death of his father. As he interacts with other characters, such as his mother Rixt, his sister Welmoed, and love interests Thora and Jelmer, themes of duty, love, and an almost agonizing search for meaning unfold. The book delves into the duality of life and death while portraying the beauty and brutality of nature, symbolized by the sea that both provides and threatens. The richness of the characters'' emotions is contrasted with their longing for connection to the divine and the world around them, making for a poignant exploration of human experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74794,500,'Reading ease score: 81.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74794,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74794,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74795,520,'"Gala Placidia: Tragedia en tres actes" by Àngel Guimerà is a dramatic play written in the late 19th century. This tragedy is rooted in historical events, focusing on the life of Gala Placidia, the Roman empress and daughter of Emperor Theodosius. The narrative traverses her complex relationships, mainly with her husband, the Gothic king Ataulf, setting the stage for themes of love, power, and ethnic strife.  The opening of the play introduces the setting in Barcelona in the year 416, emphasizing the tension between the Goths and Romans. The first act unfolds within the chamber of King Ataulf, who grapples with the pressures of leadership and his love for Placidia. The dialogues reveal the backdrop of political intrigue, with characters expressing their loyalties and conflicts. Ataulf''s interactions with the newly introduced characters, such as Sigerich—who seems to bear a grudge against Roman authority—foreshadow the turbulent emotional landscape that will evolve throughout the tragedy. The act concludes with a sense of foreboding regarding the fate of Placidia and the Gothic realm, hinting at deeper betrayals and conflicts that lie ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74795,500,'https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gal%C2%B7la_Plac%C3%ADdia_(%C3%80ngel_Guimer%C3%A0)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74795,500,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74795,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74795,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74796,520,'"Viola''s Vanity: or A Bitter Expiation" by Mrs. Alex. McVeigh Miller is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around Viola Van Lew, a beautiful and capricious young woman who garners the affection of many suitors but plays with their hearts without truly understanding the consequences of her actions. This examination of youth, vanity, and the complexities of love sets the stage for a poignant exploration of maturity and the impact of fleeting decisions on lives.  The opening of the novel introduces Viola as a society belle who jilted her fiancé to elope with a poor journalist, Rolfe Maxwell. As the narrative unfolds, it delicately portrays her thoughtless nature, juxtaposed against the deep feelings of those around her. During the early chapters, Viola''s interactions with men, especially her artist fiancé Florian Gay and the more serious Professor Desha, showcase her struggle between love and flirtation. The repercussions of her actions come to a head when she unintentionally causes distress to others, leading to a moment of deep reflection and the eventual realization of her heart''s true desires. As the story develops, themes of remorse and growth become pivotal, hinting at a transformative journey for the naïve young lady captivated by her charm and admiration. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74796,500,'Reading ease score: 76.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74796,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74797,520,'"Maison-Rougen ritari" by Alexandre Dumas and Auguste Maquet is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. Set against the backdrop of the tumultuous period of the French Revolution, it intricately weaves themes of love, loyalty, and the perilous dance of political allegiances. The story particularly revolves around the character Maurice Lindey, who becomes embroiled in the chaotic events of Revolutionary Paris.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to a tense atmosphere on March 10, 1793, as Paris sinks into a state of fear and paranoia. Amidst looming threats both from external enemies and internal factions, volunteers gather to enlist in the revolutionary cause. The opening section highlights a critical moment where Maurice Lindey intervenes to save an unknown woman from arrest by a rowdy group of volunteers during a night of chaos. Their encounter sparks intrigue, placing Maurice at the center of a mix of revolutionary fervor and personal stakes, as the woman’s mysterious identity and situation become entwined with his fate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74797,500,'Reading ease score: 41.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74797,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74797,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74798,520,'"Tolerance" by Hendrik Willem Van Loon is a philosophical exploration written in the early 20th century. This work addresses the concept of tolerance throughout history, examining how ignorance and intolerance have shaped human societies. The narrative begins with a metaphoric story set in a "Valley of Ignorance," symbolizing the struggle between knowledge and fear of the unknown, suggesting the author''s intention to challenge established ideas and promote intellectual freedom.  At the start of this volume, the reader is introduced to a realm where people live in blissful ignorance, following ancient laws without question. A wanderer returns from beyond the mountains, sharing knowledge and urging them to explore new horizons, but met with hostility and ultimately death for his views. This sets the stage for a broader discussion on ignorance and the consequences of intolerance in society. Van Loon further critiques historical figures like Justinian, highlighting the oppressive nature of authoritarian rule that stifles inquiry and thought, thereby initiating a call for intellectual liberation and the necessity of tolerance as a means to progress. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74798,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74798,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74798,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74799,520,'"Adobe Days" by Sarah Bixby-Smith is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The narrative chronicles the life of a California girl growing up on a sheep ranch during a time when California was still in its formative years, detailing experiences alongside her family''s migration to the Pacific Coast amidst the greater context of America''s westward expansion.   The opening of the book immerses the reader in the rich tapestry of Bixby-Smith''s early life, beginning with her upbringing on a sheep ranch in California''s San Benito Valley. She intricately describes the surrounding landscapes, the dynamics of her family, and the daily activities on the ranch. The narrative sets the scene for a blend of personal and historical storytelling, revealing how her family''s journey from Maine to California shaped their lives amidst the backdrop of significant societal changes, including railroad development and the decline of the Gold Rush era. The author emphasizes her deep connection to the land and the arts of ranch life, while also hinting at the larger cultural and historical events that influence her personal narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74799,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74799,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74799,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74800,520,'"L''Auvergne" by Jean Ajalbert is a regional exploration and literary work written in the late 19th century. The book likely focuses on the Auvergne region, melding history, geography, and personal reflections to portray its unique character and cultural significance. Ajalbert expresses a deep affection for Auvergne, emphasizing its dramatic landscapes, historical depth, and emotional resonance for its inhabitants.  The opening of "L''Auvergne" sets the stage by invoking a strong sense of place, as Ajalbert reflects on the beauty and distinctiveness of the region. He describes its volcanic terrain, dramatic natural features, and the emotional connection of its people to the land. Moreover, he introduces historical context, mentioning significant figures from the region and their impact on French history, intertwining the physical landscape with the ebb and flow of human activity through the ages. Through vivid descriptions and philosophical musings, Ajalbert captivates readers, inviting them to appreciate the Auvergne not only as a geographical location but as a living entity steeped in history and memory. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74800,500,'Reading ease score: 61.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74800,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74800,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74801,520,'"Rapport sur une mission botanique exécutée en 1884 dans le nord, le sud et l’ouest de la Tunisie" by A. Letourneux is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This detailed report documents a botanical mission aimed at exploring the vegetation of Tunisia during the 1880s. The book likely covers findings about plant species in different regions of the country, showcasing the diversity and ecological significance of the flora observed during the expedition.  At the start of the book, Letourneux outlines his journey, departing from Algeria with his companion to explore various regions of Tunisia, including Ghardimaou and Gabès. The opening details a series of botanical surveys conducted in diverse landscapes, ranging from forests to oases, providing accounts of the plant species cataloged during their travels. The narrative highlights the unique flora encountered, detailed observations on their environments, and interactions with local officials and communities, illustrating the challenges and discoveries of the scientific expedition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74801,500,'Reading ease score: 67.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74801,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74801,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74802,520,'"The Sweet Miracle" by Eça de Queirós is a prose-poem written in the early 20th century. This literary work explores themes of faith, hope, and the human condition against the backdrop of the life and miracles of Jesus Christ. It reflects the author''s deep connection to both the East and the traditions of Christianity, providing a unique perspective on spiritual longing and divine intervention.  The story unfolds in the region of Galilee, where the fame of Jesus as a miracle worker draws the attention of various individuals from different walks of life, including a wealthy man named Obed and a Roman centurion named Publius Septimus. Obed, desperate to save his dying flocks and restore his fortunes, sends his slaves on a quest to find the new Rabbi. Meanwhile, Septimus seeks Jesus to cure his sick daughter. Their search proves futile, echoing the sentiments of a widow and her crippled child who yearn for the same miraculous healing. The narrative builds on the themes of longing and the elusiveness of hope, culminating in a poignant moment when Jesus arrives to fulfill the desires of the sorrowful, illustrating the idea that true miracles often lie in compassionate connections and the alleviation of suffering. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74802,500,'Reading ease score: 66.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74802,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74802,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74803,520,'"Hirmuhallitus" by Alexandre Dumas and Auguste Maquet is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. This work is part of Dumas''s series that explores the events surrounding the French Revolution, particularly focusing on the intrigues and fates of characters affected by the tumultuous changes of that era, including real figures like Marie Antoinette and the enigmatic ruffian, Maison-Rouge. The narrative sets a dramatic tone as it delineates the intertwining lives of its characters amidst the backdrop of revolution and betrayal.  At the start of "Hirmuhallitus," we are introduced to Lorin, who is anxiously awaiting the return of his friend Maurice, while preparing to confront a host of political challenges in the midst of the chaotic atmosphere of revolutionary Paris. As Lorin interrogates his servant Agésilas about Maurice’s whereabouts, the urgency of their plight unfolds: they are deeply entangled in the fate of a young woman named Héloise, who is facing the guillotine. Through a series of discussions and revelations, the opening sets a suspenseful stage hinting at conspiracies, passionate encounters, and the brutal realities of a society on the brink of a radical transformation, with Lorin prepared to embark on a possibly perilous quest to save Héloise and confront the forces that threaten them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74803,500,'Reading ease score: 50.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74803,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74803,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74804,520,'"Text-book of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology" by R. J. M. Buchanan is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This textbook serves as a comprehensive guide on the application of medical knowledge to legal contexts, focusing on various aspects of forensic medicine and toxicology. It is likely aimed at medical students and practitioners who need to understand the intersection between healthcare and legal issues.  The opening of the text introduces the domain of forensic medicine, defining it as the application of medical knowledge to legal questions concerning health, illness, and death. It emphasizes the critical role of medical practitioners in legal contexts, underscoring the responsibility they have when called upon to provide expert testimony in cases of suspicious or unnatural deaths. Furthermore, it outlines the historical significance of the field and discusses the necessity for medical professionals to equip themselves with knowledge in forensic practices to aid in the administration of justice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74804,500,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74804,457);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74804,441);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74805,520,'"Queenie''s Whim" by Rosa Nouchette Carey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around Queenie Marriott, a young woman who takes on the role of a governess for her little sister Emmie at Granite Lodge, an austere and unwelcoming establishment for girls. The narrative opens with Queenie''s reflections on their challenging circumstances, marked by poverty and a tough upbringing, which sets the tone for her struggles against a harsh and oppressive school environment.  At the start of the novel, readers are introduced to the bleak life Queenie and Emmie endure, living under the strict and unyielding Miss Titheridge. Queenie''s thoughts reveal her deep love for her sister and her determination to protect her from the cruel treatment they often face. As she navigates her duties as a governess and the limitations imposed upon them, Queenie''s resilience begins to surface. She recognizes the toll their living situation takes on Emmie''s health and happiness, prompting her to contemplate a desperate course of action—seeking out their estranged uncle, Mr. Calcott. This act of defiance hints at Queenie’s strong will and the lengths to which she will go for her sister’s well-being, creating a compelling foundation for the unfolding drama between familial bonds and societal constraints. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74805,500,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74805,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74806,520,'"Queenie''s Whim, Volume 2" by Rosa Nouchette Carey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story centers around Queenie Marriott, a young woman stepping into the role of mistress of a girls'' school, as she navigates her new responsibilities and relationships in the village of Hepshaw. Themes of independence, duty, and the complexities of human emotions are likely to be explored in depth, as the novel unfolds.  The opening of the story introduces Queenie as she expresses her excitement and gratitude for securing the position of schoolmistress while grappling with her feelings of pride and determination to stand on her own. The dialogue between Queenie and Garth Clayton, who supports her, reveals her strong sense of pride regarding her position and the independence she wishes to maintain. The interactions hint at potential romantic tensions as interest in each other develops. As Queenie prepares to take on her new responsibilities, the narrative captures her resolve to create a meaningful life for herself and her sister, Emmie, while also highlighting her relationships with supportive friends and the challenges posed by her new role. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74806,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74806,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74806,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74807,520,'"Queenie''s Whim, Volume 3" by Rosa Nouchette Carey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around complex relationships among its characters, particularly focusing on themes of love, duty, and emotional turmoil. The narrative delves into the lives of Dora, Garth, and Queenie, highlighting their intertwined fates and the challenges they face in both personal and familial matters.  At the start of this volume, readers are introduced to a tense dynamic between Dora and Garth, as Garth struggles with his feelings for Dora while mulling over his increasing interest in Queenie. The book opens with scenes that depict Dora''s concern for her sister Florence and her strained connection with Garth, who is emotionally conflicted. Meanwhile, Queenie is shown to have a deep connection with the family she serves, particularly with young Emmie. As the plot unfolds, Garth finds himself drawn to Queenie while grappling with his resentment toward Dora, setting the stage for further developments in their relationships throughout the volume. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74807,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74807,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74808,520,'"Buddhan elämäntarina" by Chogyu Takayama is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work explores the life of Siddhartha Gautama, who later becomes known as Buddha, detailing his journey from princely comfort to spiritual enlightenment. The narrative examines Siddhartha''s internal struggles, his observations of human suffering, and the eventual decision that leads him to renounce his royal heritage in search of deeper truths about existence.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to the context of Siddhartha''s birth and the auspicious signs that surround it. The narrative unfolds during a time of societal stagnation and spiritual confusion in ancient India, laying the groundwork for Siddhartha''s quest for understanding. As a child of privilege, he grows up sheltered in a palace, deepening the contrast between his sheltered life and the suffering he senses exists in the world outside. The text outlines Siddhartha''s early reflections on life, where he grapples with existential questions, foreshadowing his future path toward becoming a spiritual leader. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74808,500,'Reading ease score: 34.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74808,448);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74808,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74809,520,'"Stokers and Pokers: or, The London and North-Western Railway" by the author of "Bubbles from the Brunnen of Nassau" is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. The book provides an in-depth look into the construction, maintenance, and operational intricacies of the London and North-Western Railway, reflecting on the impact of railways on society and commerce during that period. It aims to illuminate the challenges faced by engineers and workers in an age when rail transport was becoming a vital part of British life.  The opening of the work begins by drawing a vivid comparison between the astonishment with which people once viewed trains and the modern-day indifference towards them. The author sets the stage by introducing the reader to an anecdote about an extraordinary horse ride, transitioning into the amazement surrounding the advances of railway technology and its implications for everyday life. With an intention to inform the public, the writer conveys the complexity of railway construction and the various elements involved, from surveying to the roles of different workers, emphasizing not only the physical but also the societal hurdles that railway engineers had to overcome. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74809,500,'Reading ease score: 41.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74809,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74809,437);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74810,520,'"Rapport sur une mission botanique exécutée en 1884 dans la région saharienne, au nord des grands chotts et dans les îles de la côte orientale de la Tunisie" by Doûmet-Adanson is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This detailed report encapsulates the findings of a botanical mission aimed at exploring and documenting the flora and fauna of Tunisia, particularly focusing on the southern regions and coastal islands. The work highlights the collaborative efforts of various scientists and their dedication to expanding the knowledge of natural history in Tunisia during this period.  At the start of the report, the author introduces the mission and outlines the team involved, including renowned scientists like Valéry Mayet and the doctor Bonnet. The group began their journey in late March 1884, conducting explorations in Tunisia, where they meticulously cataloged plant species and contributed observations on local meteorology, geology, and archaeology. The narrative sets the tone for a thorough scientific exploration, detailing their travels from Tunis through various terrains, highlighting the challenges they faced along the way, and showcasing the rich biodiversity and contrasting ecologies of the regions they investigated. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74810,500,'Reading ease score: 65.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74810,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74810,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74811,520,'"Matkamuistelmia Egyptistä, Siinailta ja Palestiinasta 1859—1860" by G. E. Beskow is a travel memoir written in the late 19th century. The narrative chronicles the author''s experiences and observations as he journeys through Egypt, the Sinai Peninsula, and Palestine, conveying a rich tapestry of historical and cultural insights. As the book unfolds, readers are introduced to the diverse landscapes and peoples of these regions, alongside a contemplation of their historical significance.  The opening of the memoir sets the stage for the journey, beginning with the departure from Stockholm to Constantinople aboard a steamboat. The initial part of the text depicts a series of travel challenges, including a harsh winter storm that forces the passengers to seek refuge along the coast of Sweden. Beskow recounts the camaraderie among fellow travelers as they navigate this journey through various cities in Europe, painting vivid scenes of their experiences and interactions. The author reflects on both the beauty of the landscapes they traverse and the historical weight of the sites they encounter, hinting at the deeper explorations of culture, faith, and the history of these significant regions that lie ahead in the memoir. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74811,500,'Reading ease score: 35.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74811,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74811,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74812,520,'"Reminiscences of an Army Nurse during the Civil War" by Adelaide W. Smith is a historical account likely written in the early 20th century. The narrative reflects on the author''s personal experiences as a volunteer nurse during the American Civil War, revealing the hardships and triumphs faced by soldiers and medical staff alike. The text offers a unique perspective into the day-to-day lives and challenges encountered in hospitals and battlefields, shedding light on the often-overlooked contributions of women during this turbulent time in history.  At the start of the work, the author sets the stage by expressing her intention to convey the sentiments and atmosphere of the Civil War from a personal viewpoint rather than a historical analysis. She discusses the beginning of the war and the turmoil it caused within families and communities, detailing the early days of the conflict and her transition into nursing soldiers. The opening portion introduces key figures like General Winfield Scott and addresses various events leading up to her service in hospitals, such as early military preparations and the emotional impact of war. Through poignant anecdotes about individual soldiers and nurses, Adelaide W. Smith captures the spirit of sacrifice, camaraderie, and the profound challenges faced by those who cared for the wounded. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74812,500,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74812,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74812,441);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74813,520,'"The Commonwealth of Cells: Some Popular Essays on Human Physiology" by H. G. F. Spurrell is a collection of essays addressing the topic of human physiology, written in the early 20th century. The work seeks to engage a general audience by summarizing fundamental physiological principles in an accessible format, avoiding the complex details often found in scientific textbooks. The book is likely aimed at readers who have an interest in understanding the human body and its functions without requiring extensive scientific knowledge.  At the start of this work, Spurrell lays out his intentions and motivations for writing these essays, emphasizing the public''s curiosity about physiological processes that govern human life. He notes that many existing texts are too detailed for casual readers, making it difficult for them to grasp the body as a cohesive system. In his introduction, Spurrell provides an overview of physiology''s relevance to medicine, describing how physiologists and doctors collaborate to understand bodily functions and treat diseases. The essays promise to explore the nature of life, the chemistry of the body, mechanical functions, and the significance of cells in maintaining life, setting a framework for the discussions to follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74813,500,'Reading ease score: 54.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74813,441);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74814,520,'"Justin Morgan, Founder of His Race: The Romantic History of a Horse" by Eleanor Waring Burnham is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book chronicles the life and legacy of a remarkable horse named True, the progenitor of the Morgan horse breed, while also exploring themes of friendship, loyalty, and the human-animal bond. It provides a detailed narrative that blends both historical facts and charming anecdotes about the horse and its influences on equestrian culture.  The opening of the narrative introduces readers to True, a colt born near Springfield, Massachusetts, in the late 18th century, as well as his mother, Gipsey. The chapter paints a vivid picture of True''s early life, his playful personality, and his developing relationships with the natural surroundings and other animals, including a dog and a cat. As True grows, he learns valuable lessons about cooperation, obedience, and bravery, reflecting the bond he shares with humans, particularly his attentive master, Silas Whitman. The chapter concludes with a burgeoning sense of adventure as True begins to understand his place in the larger world, foreshadowing the challenges and triumphs that will shape his legacy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74814,500,'Reading ease score: 76.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74814,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74814,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74815,520,'"Richard Lepsius, a Biography" by Georg Ebers is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The biography chronicles the life and achievements of Richard Lepsius, a prominent Egyptologist known for his significant contributions to the study of ancient Egypt and hieroglyphics. The book takes the reader through Lepsius''s academic journey, his formative years, and his relationships with influential scholars, and serves as a dedicated tribute to his legacy in Egyptology.  The opening of the biography reveals the deep admiration and respect that Georg Ebers held for Lepsius as a teacher and friend. In a heartfelt dedication to Dr. Johannes Dümichen, Ebers reflects on Lepsius’s enduring influence on the field of Egyptology and acknowledges the collaborative spirit of their scholarly community. Ebers details Lepsius''s early life, emphasizing the rich academic environment he was nurtured in, thanks to his father''s dedication to archaeology and history. This section sets a foundation for understanding Lepsius''s character, scholarly determination, and the challenges he faced in pursuit of his scientific endeavors. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74815,500,'Reading ease score: 53.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74815,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74815,424);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74816,520,'"Iloinen Harbori" by Kalle Potti is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story explores the lives of Finnish immigrants in America, particularly focusing on their struggles with alcohol and the impact it has on their community. The main character, Stenroos, is depicted as a hardworking man who is deeply concerned about his fellow countrymen''s drinking habits and seeks to establish a temperance society to combat the growing addiction among them.  The opening of the novel sets the stage in a summer harbor, where the Finnish crew is drawn into a strong debate about excessive drinking during work hours. Stenroos, aware of the dire consequences of their behavior on their families back home, confronts his colleagues, expressing his disappointment and urging them to reconsider their choices. Despite his passionate plea, the men choose to abandon their duties for a trip to the pub, illustrating the tension between personal desires and communal responsibility. Stenroos''s determination to reform his peers is further hinted at when he decides to raise awareness about the need for a temperance movement, highlighting both his leadership qualities and the social challenges he faces. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74816,500,'Reading ease score: 41.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74816,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74816,434);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74817,520,'"L''Inquisition médiévale" by Jean Guiraud is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the complex history and functioning of the Inquisition during the Middle Ages, particularly focusing on how it dealt with heretical movements like Catharism and the societal context in which it operated. Guiraud aims to provide a balanced view, free from biases typically associated with defenders or critics of the Church.  The opening of the work sets the stage for an in-depth examination of the Inquisition by addressing the ongoing debates surrounding its historical narrative. Guiraud questions the objectivity of previous analyses, asserting that even a new understanding of well-tread topics can emerge from fresh documentation and interpretations. He emphasizes the need for a rigorous approach that presents the Inquisition as it was in practice, illustrating its interrelationship with accused heretics and the prevalent socio-political dynamics of the time. Guiraud introduces key historical figures, such as the Cathars, and asserts that a proper study of the Inquisition must consider both its formal legal framework and the nuanced realities of its operations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74817,500,'Reading ease score: 59.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74817,447);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74817,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74818,520,'"Anonymity: An Enquiry" by E. M. Forster is an essay published in the early 20th century that explores the concept of authorship and the significance of knowing an author''s identity in relation to the experience of literature. This work is part of "The Hogarth Essays," a collection featuring various literary critiques and reflections from different authors. Forster''s essay delves into the implications of anonymity and signed works, suggesting that the nature of literature often leads to a condition where the work itself transcends its creator, and the appreciation of art is less about the individual and more about the collective experience it offers.  In "Anonymity: An Enquiry," Forster embarks on a thoughtful examination of how the knowledge of an author''s identity influences our engagement with their work, contrasting songs and poems that exist anonymously, such as "The Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens," with signed works like Coleridge''s "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." He argues that creative literature often wants to exist without the author''s signature to allow readers to fully immerse themselves in the emotional and atmospheric realms created by the text. Forster contends that the essence of literature lies in transcending the personal identity of the author, inviting readers to lose themselves in the artistry instead of being preoccupied with the authorship. Throughout the essay, he discusses the roles of information and atmosphere in writing, ultimately emphasizing that true literary appreciation arises when readers engage with the work''s creative spirit rather than the external identity of its creator. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74818,500,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74818,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74818,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74819,520,'"L''Allemagne et l''athéisme au XIXe siècle" by Ernest Hello is a philosophical and theological critique written in the mid-19th century. The work aims to explore and challenge the principles of atheism, particularly as articulated by the prominent thinker M. Renan. Hello sets out to defend the integrity of religion, society, and both moral and scientific truths against what he perceives to be the dangerous repercussions of atheistic thought.  At the start of the text, Hello emphatically declares his intent to dissect and refute atheism''s claims, specifically addressing Renan''s nuanced position on the existence of God. He argues that denying God, whether outright or in a roundabout manner, ultimately undermines the essential foundations of being and society. Hello presents a detailed examination of atheism''s four negations: negations of religion, of society, of science, and ultimately, he suggests, of the very essence of humanity. His writing is passionate and assertive, establishing a stark dichotomy between the affirmation of existence and the nihilism he attributes to atheistic philosophy. In essence, the opening portion serves as a clarion call for the revival of faith and the acknowledgment of an ultimate truth that exists beyond the bounds of skepticism. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74819,500,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74819,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74819,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74820,520,'"Hiiliä" by Aku Päiviö is a collection of poetic narratives written in the early 20th century. The work seems to explore themes of life''s struggles, human emotion, and societal contrasts through vivid and reflective storytelling. Various characters such as a wandering musician and aging couples are introduced, hinting at deep personal experiences and possibly a critical look at societal norms of the time.  At the start of "Hiiliä," the reader is drawn into a world rich with emotional and existential reflections. A wandering musician contemplates his life and the stories encapsulated within his flute, expressing nostalgia and heartache as he recalls his journey filled with both beauty and suffering. This narrative transitions into scenes depicting two elderly people grappling with their fading perceptions and memories under the wide night sky, addressing themes of love and loss. The transition between characters and the portrayal of their everyday struggles serve as an engaging prompt for deeper explorations of humanity''s innate desires and fears amidst a backdrop of harsh societal realities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74820,500,'Reading ease score: 48.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74820,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74820,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74821,520,'"Lord Lister no. 0053: Een huwelijksreis" by Kurt Matull and Theo von Blankensee is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds aboard a grand steamship traveling from Havre to Mediterranean destinations, where a diverse group of pleasure travelers seek to escape the winter cold. The narrative follows Lord Lister, also known as John C. Raffles, an enigmatic character who becomes entangled in a mystery involving a lookalike passenger, Otto Muller, and the unfolding events that arise from this uncanny resemblance.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the vibrant atmosphere on the ship as passengers enjoy their journey under the warm Spanish sun. Lord Lister observes two fellow travelers, a man and a woman, leading him to believe that his friend Edward is courting an unremarkable lady, which puzzles him. This curiosity escalates when Lister discovers that Otto Muller, a gentleman aboard the ship, is a dead ringer for him. Misunderstandings ensue as Lister finds himself in a web of mistaken identities and comical situations, especially when greeted by Muller as an old acquaintance, suggesting a history of confusion between them. As the plot progresses, Lister''s clandestine motives and the charm of the alternate identities promise a novel filled with intrigue and humor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74821,500,'Reading ease score: 72.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74821,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74821,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74822,520,'"Our Trip to Blunderland: or, Grand Excursion to Blundertown and Back" by Jean Jambon is a whimsical children''s story written in the late 19th century. The narrative follows three boys, named Norval, Jaques, and Ranulf, who are inspired by Alice''s adventures in Wonderland and long for similar escapades through dreamlike realms. Their delightful journey leads them to the fantastical and absurd world of Blunderland, filled with humorous situations and quirky characters.  The opening of the tale sets the stage with the boys'' conversations about Alice and the enchanting experiences she had. As they dream of visiting wonderlands of their own, they encounter Alice, who offers them a "pass" to embark on their adventure. Notably playful dialogue ensues, and after some humorous interactions, they find themselves on bicycles that magically whisk them off. Soon, they are soaring through the air, witnessing whimsical sights, and eventually crashing into the chaotic and zany world of Blunderland. The tone is comical and surreal, hinting at the absurdity and adventure that lie ahead in their journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74822,500,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74822,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74822,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74823,520,'"Aux pays du Soudan : Bogos, Mensah, Souakim" by Denis de Rivoyre is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book explores the complex socio-political landscape of the regions around the Red Sea, focusing on the interactions and conflicts between local tribes, Egyptian forces, and European interests, particularly through the lens of missionary activities and indigenous superstitions.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage by describing the transformations in the area following the rise of Egyptian dominance after 1866. It contrasts the decaying state of the Mensah and Bogos regions with their previous glory, detailing their plight under the Egyptians and the impact of wars and famine. Rivoyre introduces the mission of Catholic priests trying to provide aid and maintain a foothold in the area, amid the intermingling of troubled relationships, exploitation from the Egyptians, and the historical memories of the local populations. The complex interplay between faith, culture, and colonial ambition is revealed through vivid descriptions of the dire conditions faced by the indigenous people and their struggles against external forces. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74823,500,'Reading ease score: 68.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74823,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74823,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74824,520,'"Templen vangit: Romaani Ranskan vallankumouksesta" by Alexandre Dumas is a historical novel written in the early 19th century. This work delves into the chaotic and tumultuous events surrounding the French Revolution, specifically focusing on the fate of the royal family and the grim consequences of the uprising. The narrative weaves together the experiences of key figures, such as King Louis XVI, his wife Marie Antoinette, and their loyal servants amidst the mayhem.  The opening of the book sets a dramatic tone, illustrating the violent overthrow of the monarchy as the people storm the palace, incited by a mixture of rage and desperation. We are introduced to the intense atmosphere within the Tuileries, where cries for justice escalate into bloody chaos. Amidst the turmoil, characters like the noblewomen fleeing from the rioters and the devoted royal servants reveal the personal stakes involved in the political unrest. Dumas paints a vivid picture of the impact of revolution on individuals, inviting readers to explore themes of loyalty, sacrifice, and the stark reality of power in a time of upheaval. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74824,500,'Reading ease score: 42.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74824,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74824,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74825,520,'"La donna del mare" by Henrik Ibsen is a drama written in the late 19th century. The play explores themes of identity, personal freedom, and the conflict between duty and desire, centering around the main character, Ellida Wangel, who is trapped between her obligations to her current husband, Dr. Wangel, and her past with a mysterious stranger from the sea. The narrative unfolds in a northern Norwegian town during the summer, setting the stage for a poignant exploration of Ellida''s internal struggles.  The opening of the play introduces us to the Wangel family and their local surroundings. We meet Dr. Wangell and his young wife, Ellida, who has a tumultuous connection with the sea and a mysterious past relationship with a stranger who claims to have a bond with her. As the family prepares for the arrival of the professor, Arnholm, various characters engage in conversations that reveal their personal aspirations, relationships, and motivations. The atmosphere carries a mix of festivity and underlying tension, hinting at Ellida''s struggles with her identity and the weight of her emotional ties. Through these introductory scenes, Ibsen establishes the groundwork for a profound exploration of human emotions and desires against the backdrop of societal expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74825,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lady_from_the_Sea https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_donna_del_mare_(Ibsen)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74825,500,'Reading ease score: 61.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74825,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74825,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74826,520,'"The Sea-Charm of Venice" by Stopford A. Brooke is a reflective and descriptive essay about the unique beauty and character of Venice, written in the early 20th century. The work delves into how the city''s essence is entwined with its maritime identity, asserting that its charm is derived from its relationship with the sea. The essay explores various aspects of Venice''s history, architecture, and culture while emphasizing the influence of the sea on the city and its people.  The opening of the essay sets the stage by recounting the historical origins of Venice, stemming from the flight of Roman nobles from the invasions led by Attila and others, who sought refuge on the islands of the lagoon. Brooke vividly describes the nostalgic sights and sounds of Venice, immersing readers in the ethereal atmosphere of early morning and nighttime scenes, where the city blends seamlessly with the waters surrounding it. The prose poetically captures the reflections in the water, the quiet beauty of the islands, and the unique architecture that embraces its aquatic backdrop, ultimately proposing that Venice itself is a creation of the sea, molded by nature and human artistry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74826,500,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74826,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74826,425);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74827,520,'"The Yankee Mining Squadron: or, Laying the North Sea Mine Barrage" by Captain Reginald R. Belknap, U.S.N. is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book details the American naval operation during World War I focused on laying underwater mines across the North Sea to hinder German submarine movements. It captures the challenges and strategies involved in this massive undertaking, emphasizing the significance of the mine barrage in the conflict.  The opening of the book establishes the context of the operation, revealing the preparations and logistical challenges faced by the American Mine Force upon arriving in Scotland. Captain Belknap reflects on the beauty of the Scottish landscape contrasted against the urgency of their mission. He introduces the squadron''s deployment strategy, equipment, and the importance of teamwork, setting the stage for the first minelaying excursion. The tone conveys both pride in the squadron''s capabilities and the gravity of the task at hand, highlighting the coordination required for executing such a complex military operation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74827,500,'Reading ease score: 56.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74827,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74827,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74828,520,'"Le soleil intérieur" by Adolphe Retté is a biographical narrative likely written in the early 20th century. The work focuses on the life of Saint Joseph of Cupertino, a canonized saint known for his deep spirituality, mystical experiences, and the extraordinary miracles attributed to him, such as levitation and clairvoyance. Retté aims to explore the essence of Joseph''s spiritual life and the profound connection he had with the divine, depicting a character who navigates both societal disdain and religious devotion.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to the idea of a ''Soleil intérieur''—an inner light symbolizing divine grace and truth—which permeates the life of Joseph of Cupertino. Retté reflects on the intense struggles and tribulations Joseph faced during his early life, which were compounded by a lack of understanding from those around him, including his family and peers. Despite the challenges, Joseph''s profound devotion and mystical tendencies become apparent as he engages with the divine through prayer and contemplation, often becoming lost in spiritual raptures. The opening sets the stage for a detailed examination of his life, highlighting not only the extraordinary aspects of his spirituality but also the human experiences that shaped his journey towards sainthood. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74828,500,'Reading ease score: 68.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74828,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74828,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74829,520,'"Suvun kunnia : ja muita kertomuksia Hawaii-saarilta" by Jack London is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The narrative seems to explore themes of personal conflict, social identity, and cultural contrasts through the experiences of its characters. The opening story introduces Percival Ford, a complex character grappling with societal expectations and personal insecurities in the vibrant setting of Hawaii.  The opening of the collection sets the stage with Percival Ford attending a gathering where he is surrounded by military officers and their wives, all of whom provoke a sense of discomfort and disdain in him. Ford is depicted as a man weighed down by his own insecurities, particularly in his interactions with the assertive men and liberated women around him. He reflects on his social standing, the legacy of his father, and his own feelings of isolation amidst the revelry. This initial scene introduces the central conflict of identity and belonging that Ford faces, foreshadowing the deeper explorations of familial ties and personal morality that will unfold in the subsequent narratives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74829,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Sea_Tales_(London_collection)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74829,500,'Reading ease score: 44.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74829,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74829,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74830,520,'"In Sargasso." by Julius Chambers is a narrative about Captain Austin Clark, detailing his two-year captivity among a unique society inhabiting the Sargasso Sea, and is likely written in the late 19th century. This work explores themes of adventure and survival, as Clark navigates the complexities of this mysterious community while grappling with his fate and seeking a way to reconnect with his lost crew. The narrative promises to deliver a blend of romance, intrigue, and the clash of cultures as Clark encounters both danger and beauty amid the strange inhabitants of the sea."  "The opening of the story introduces Captain Austin Clark, who reflects on his sudden disappearance while commanding the tramp steamer Caribas. His account begins with an overview of the Sargasso Sea, presenting it as a vast, uncharted wilderness filled with derelict ships and lost souls. After a brief introduction to his past as a sailor and ship captain, he embarks on a journey into the heart of the Sargasso at the request of an artist passenger, Arthur Gray. However, this decision leads him into a perilous situation. As Clark enters this mysterious region, his curiosity ultimately results in betrayal, and he finds himself trapped among a peculiar people, all while contemplating his crew''s fate and the implications of his choices in this otherworldly community." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74830,500,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74830,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74830,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74831,520,'"The Topography and Geology of the Fayum Province of Egypt" by H. J. L. Beadnell is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The work serves as a comprehensive survey focused on the physical geography and geological structures of the Fayum region, a unique depression in Egypt. It likely aims to document findings from extensive geological surveys, offering insights into the area''s topography, sedimentary formations, and the historical context of its development.   At the start of the text, Beadnell details the initial stages of the geological survey, which began in 1898, describing the previously unexplored region of the Fayum. He outlines the objectives of the survey, including mapping the topography and conducting soil studies, while also mentioning the historical discoveries relevant to the Fayum vertebrate fauna. The introduction sets the stage for detailed explorations of the area''s varied landscapes, water systems, and geological formations, which are further elaborated upon in subsequent sections of the publication. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74831,500,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74831,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74831,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74832,520,'"La pudique Albion" by Hector France is a critical novel written in the late 19th century. The work explores the hypocrisy and moral façade of British society, particularly focusing on themes of purity, vice, and societal pretense. The narrative seems to delve into the stark contrasts between public deportment and private behavior, likely highlighting the experiences of young women in a repressive environment.  The opening of the novel sets a scathing tone as the narrator reflects on English society''s obsession with appearances and hypocrisy. With vivid illustrations, the text introduces the character of Nelly Fergusson, a young girl in an orphanage under the strict oversight of Miss Rabbit, who embodies the repressive norms and moral severity of the era. The scene unfolds mercilessly as Miss Rabbit prepares to punish Nelly, revealing the brutal discipline enforced on students while critiquing the moral absurdities that underpin such practices. Overall, the beginning of the story establishes a setting ripe for exploring the complexities of societal expectations and the dark undercurrents of British moralism. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74832,500,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74832,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74832,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74833,520,'"Historiallisia kaskuja" by Yrjö Karilas is a collection of historical anecdotes and narratives written in the early 20th century. This work compiles various tales that offer insights into historical figures and events, moving through different periods and cultures, highlighting the wit and wisdom associated with these characters. The anecdotes revolve around prominent figures from ancient to early modern history, providing a blend of humor, moral lessons, and reflections on human nature.  The opening of the book sets the tone with a series of engaging anecdotes featuring illustrious figures like Darius, Leonidas, and Socrates, among others. Each story encapsulates a moment or exchange that reveals significant traits of these historical personalities, such as courage, wisdom, and the absurdity of some circumstances they faced. Rather than being presented in a linear narrative, these tales are presented as individual snippets that illustrate the character and decisions of the figures involved, often laced with humor and philosophical insights. Overall, the beginning of the book serves as a captivating introduction to the diverse tales that celebrate human experience throughout history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74833,500,'Reading ease score: 43.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74833,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74833,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74834,520,'"The Pioneers of Unadilla Village, 1784-1840" by Francis Whiting Halsey is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the early history and development of Unadilla, a village located in New York, through the lives and experiences of its first settlers, or pioneers. The text provides valuable insights into the social, economic, and cultural aspects of village life during the period leading up to and following its founding.   At the start of the book, the author sets the stage by discussing the landscape of the Susquehanna Valley before the establishment of the village. It describes the arrival of white settlers in the region, the impact of the Revolutionary War, and the resurgence of settlement after the war ended in 1784. The narrative introduces key figures among the early settlers, their motivations for moving to Unadilla, and highlights the foundational elements that contributed to the growth of the village, such as the development of mills, farms, and local commerce. It establishes a historical context that promises to explore both the trials and triumphs of those who shaped the community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74834,500,'Reading ease score: 70.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74834,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74835,520,'"The Last Buccaneer: or, The Trustees of Mrs A" by L. Cope Cornford is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. Set against the backdrop of early 18th-century maritime adventures, the story revolves around the lives of several characters, including Brandon Pomfrett, a young clerk with dreams of adventure, and Captain Dawkins, a man with a mysterious past and seafaring prowess. The narrative explores themes of piracy, treasure hunting, and the moral dilemmas faced by those entangled in these pursuits.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to Brandon Pomfrett, a clerk yearning for excitement beyond his mundane life in Bristol. As he meets Captain Dawkins, a burly mariner, the two are drawn into an adventure revolving around a long-lost treasure map ignited by a mysterious bottle. They soon find themselves embroiled in schemes that point toward buccaneering exploits, navigating the complex motivations of various characters, including the unscrupulous Mr. Gamaliel. The tone is infused with a sense of foreboding and intrigue, hinting at the consequences of their quests for fortune amid the treacherous currents of the sea and the darker elements of human ambition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74835,500,'Reading ease score: 79.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74835,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74835,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74836,520,'"Mexican Archæology: An Introduction to the Archæology of the Mexican and Mayan Civilizations of Pre-Spanish America" by Thomas A. Joyce is a scholarly scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book offers a synthesis of knowledge surrounding the life and culture of the Mexican and Maya peoples before Spanish colonization, aiming to fill gaps in existing research while providing a framework for future archaeological investigations. Joyce’s work discusses the complexities of ancient Mexican civilization, including their religious practices, societal structures, and artistic achievements.  The opening of this text presents Joyce''s aims and methodologies in discussing Mexican and Maya archæology. He acknowledges the limitations of current knowledge while emphasizing the importance of summarizing findings to inspire further research. Joyce reflects on the historical significance of pre-Spanish civilizations, particularly the stories of the Aztecs and Mayans, and sets the stage for a structured exploration of their cultural legacies. He outlines his intent to focus primarily on these two groups while recognizing the broader geographical context of their achievements within Mexico and Central America. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74836,500,'Reading ease score: 52.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74836,424);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74836,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74837,520,'"Gloria: Kokoelma kansojen pyhiä kertomuksia" by Ernst Lampén is a collection of sacred stories from various cultures written in the early 20th century. The work explores the similarities and shared themes found within the mythologies and religious narratives of different peoples, illustrating how tales of miraculous births, divine interventions, and the challenges faced by spiritual leaders have commonalities across civilizations.  The opening of "Gloria" introduces the concept of universal themes that resonate in sacred tales from myriad cultures, suggesting that these stories reflect a fundamental human desire to venerate exceptional figures through divine narratives. Lampén argues that all cultures share similar motifs about revered individuals, asserting their extraordinary origins, miraculous acts, and eventual immortality. He sets the stage for a deeper examination of these tales, emphasizing the importance of recognizing the interconnectedness of different belief systems while advocating for an appreciation of diversity in faith and spirituality. The introduction invites readers to ponder the significance of these narratives in understanding humanity''s quest for connection with the divine. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74837,500,'Reading ease score: 41.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74837,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74837,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74838,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74838,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74838,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74839,520,'"La vie secrète" by Édouard Estaunié is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Mlle Noémi Peyrolles, a woman of some means who is deeply rooted in the land she has inherited, navigating the complexities of her social world in a rural French setting. Themes of ambition, societal expectations, and the contrast between personal desires and community roles begin to unfold through Noémi''s interactions and observations.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Mlle Noémi Peyrolles in her modest dining room as she prepares to socialize with two men, M. Lethois and M. l''abbé Taffin. We learn about Noémi''s strong attachment to her land, stemming from her father''s humble beginnings, as well as her reluctance to marry, shaped by her brother''s wasted potential. As they await their company, discussions arise regarding the recent arrival of a new neighbor, Jude Servin, who is viewed with suspicion by Noémi. Amidst the backdrop of societal rituals and personal grievances, underlying tensions build as they engage in their habitual game of whist, reflecting on their lives and relationships, setting the stage for the unfolding drama. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74839,500,'https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Vie_secr%C3%A8te',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74839,500,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74839,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74839,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74840,520,'"The Circuit Rider: A Tale of the Heroic Age" by Edward Eggleston is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds in a rustic frontier setting, focusing on the early circuit preachers who played a vital role in shaping communities during a chaotic time. The main character, Morton Goodwin, finds himself entangled in romantic interests and local conflicts, particularly involving the spirited Patty Lumsden and her domineering father, Captain Lumsden.  At the start of the book, the tale begins with a vivid depiction of a corn-shucking event at Captain Lumsden''s farm, capturing the lively social customs of the time. As neighbors gather for the occasion, the dynamic between the characters is established, showcasing Morton''s admiration for Patty and his competitive spirit against Bill McConkey. However, tensions rise as Morton grapples with the oppressive influence of Captain Lumsden, who exerts significant control in the settlement and appears determined to thwart Morton''s pursuit of Patty. This prelude sets the stage for a narrative filled with both humor and poignant moments of personal conflict against the backdrop of a developing frontier society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74840,500,'Reading ease score: 78.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74840,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74840,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74841,520,'"En Asie centrale : De Moscou en Bactriane" by Gabriel Bonvalot is a travel narrative written in the late 19th century. This work recounts the author’s extensive journey across central Asia, including regions like Russia, Siberia, and Turkestan, eventually reaching Bactria. Bonvalot, alongside his companion Capus, embarks on this adventure as scientific missionaries, collecting natural history specimens along the way, and offers detailed observations of the cultures and landscapes encountered during their travels.  The opening of the narrative introduces the journey, beginning with their departure from Moscow and detailing their experiences as they navigate through various landscapes and cities like Nijni-Novogorod and Perm. The duo boards a riverboat named "Samolet" to travel down the Volga, providing insights into the diverse mix of travelers aboard, from merchants to soldiers. As Bonvalot describes their observations of the scenery, local customs, and the people they meet, he sets the stage for a vibrant exploration of life in the regions they traverse, aiming to capture both the geography and the essence of the nomadic and sedentary populations they encounter. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74841,500,'Reading ease score: 75.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74841,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74841,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74842,520,'"Les confessions d''un converti" by Robert Hugh Benson is a religious autobiographical account written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the author''s personal journey of faith, detailing his transformation from being raised in the Anglican tradition to eventually embracing Catholicism. The book reflects on his upbringing in a prominent Anglican family, examining the influences that shaped his religious beliefs, as well as the internal struggles he faced during this profound transition.  The opening portion of the memoir sets the stage for Benson''s reflections on his religious evolution. He begins by acknowledging the complexity of retracing his spiritual journey, describing how various external influences impacted his understanding of faith. He recounts formative experiences from his childhood, his education within the Anglican Church, and the significant role his father played in his religious development. Benson articulates his early beliefs and doubts, illustrating a gradual awakening to the Catholic faith while grappling with the emotional and intellectual challenges that come with such a conversion. As he contemplates the essence of true spirituality, he candidly admits the difficulty of fully appreciating the prior beliefs that have grown distant in his memory, setting a thoughtful and introspective tone for the rest of the memoir. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74842,500,'Reading ease score: 55.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74842,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74842,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74843,520,'"Männyn käpyjä: Saloiltamme poimittuja" by Jonas Viktor Leiman is a collection of literary works written in the late 19th century. The pieces seem to explore various aspects of rural life and society, focusing on themes such as education, social struggles, and communal interactions. The opening portion introduces a range of characters, including a farmer named Anttila, who grapples with the idea of establishing a school in his community, reflecting the tensions and cultural shifts of the time.  At the start of the collection, we are introduced to Anttila, who wakes up early to find the weather gloomy. He contemplates directing his workers to carry out tasks in the fields but soon decides to attend a municipality meeting where the contentious issue of starting a school will be debated. Anttila is portrayed as a man skeptical of the school, pushing against the idea that it is necessary for the community. The unfolding dialogue reveals his strong opposition to what he perceives as an elitist agenda, illustrating the conflict between traditional rural values and the push for modern education. This opening sets the stage for a deeper exploration of societal dynamics and personal conflicts, echoing the strife within many rural communities during that era. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74843,500,'Reading ease score: 54.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74843,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74843,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74844,520,'"La vie des termites" by Maurice Maeterlinck is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The work explores the intricate life and social structure of termites, aiming to present factual observations rather than fictionalized narratives. It delves deep into the behaviors, environments, and cultures of these fascinating insects, comparing them to other social insects like bees and ants.  At the start of the book, Maeterlinck outlines the methodology of his study and emphasizes the importance of accuracy in reporting observations about termites, distancing his work from the embellished accounts of travelers or early entomologists. He introduces the complexities of the termite community, distinguishing between castes such as workers, soldiers, and reproductive members, and hints at the advanced societal structures they exhibit. The text sets the stage for a comprehensive exploration of termite life, highlighting their roles in their ecosystems and establishing a comparative framework with other insect societies, particularly noting their impressive architectural achievements and social organization. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74844,500,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74844,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74844,479);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74845,520,'"Illan varjot: Romaani" by Eduard von Keyserling is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the secluded Padurenin castle, where the main characters—the parooni Siegwart von der Warthe, his sister paroonitar Arabella, and their family and servants—navigate the complexities of aristocratic life steeped in tradition and loss. Central to the narrative is the atmosphere of melancholy, reflecting on themes of duty, familial bonds, and the inevitable changes brought about by time.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to the somber atmosphere of Padurenin castle following a substantial tragedy in the family. The characters are depicted in quiet moments, with the parooni moving about in a wheelchair, and servants discussing their mundane lives against the backdrop of fading aristocratic glory. The narrative highlights the parooni''s sense of authority and the lingering influence he has over those around him, despite his declining health. As rumors circulate about the departure of his daughter Fastrade for medical training, the chapter sets the stage for upcoming tensions and emotional upheaval, hinting at deeper connections and unresolved issues within this aristocratic family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74845,500,'Reading ease score: 48.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74845,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74845,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74846,520,'"A Moslem Seeker After God: Showing Islam at its Best in the Life and Teaching of Al-Ghazali" by Samuel M. Zwemer is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the life of Al-Ghazali, a pivotal figure in Islamic thought, emphasizing the best aspects of Islam as manifested through his mysticism and theology. It aims to present a sympathetic portrait of Islam that highlights its spiritual depth as well as its struggles with external influences.  The opening of the work sets the stage by introducing Al-Ghazali as a significant figure in Islamic history, likening his importance to that of Mohammed. The text describes the environment in which he lived during the 11th century, marked by both cultural richness and moral decay within the Islamic world. It provides a historical context, portraying Al-Ghazali as a major reformer, scholar, and mystic who navigated the complexities of faith, reason, and spirituality during a tumultuous era. This introduction underscores his influence and the relevance of his teachings in offering a path to understanding divine truth, positioning him as an enduring seeker after God. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74846,500,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74846,448);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74846,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74847,520,'"Tide Marks: Being Some Records of a Journey to the Beaches of the Moluccas" by H. M. Tomlinson is a travel narrative written in the early 20th century. The book chronicles the author’s experiences and reflections during his journey to the Moluccas and the forests of Malaya. It delves into themes of nostalgia, the impact of war, and the contrast between civilization and the allure of untouched nature, providing a window into the beauty and complexities of the regions visited.  At the start of "Tide Marks," the author paints a vivid picture of London shrouded in fog, symbolizing a transition between eras and hinting at a disintegration of the past. The narrative introduces a reflective literary editor grappling with a sense of loss, as he contemplates the emptiness around him and the clutter of unremarkable literature. The appearance of a shabby visitor offers a snapshot of the disillusionment following war, while an unexpected letter beckons the editor toward an adventure in the Moluccas, igniting a sense of curiosity and a longing for discovery. This opening sets the stage for a deeper exploration of the themes of travel, discovery, and the human condition in the face of change. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74847,500,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74847,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74847,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74848,520,'"The Donovan Chance" by Francis Lynde is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds around Larry Donovan, a young railroad worker who grapples with his ambitions and familial responsibilities in a dynamic setting filled with adventure and challenges in the railroading industry. The book primarily explores themes of opportunity and aspiration as Larry seeks to transcend his current role and provide a better future for his family.  The opening of the novel introduces Larry Donovan as he finishes his shift at a locomotive roundhouse, reflecting on his dissatisfaction with his job and contemplating his aspirations. His conversation with his father illustrates the weight of familial expectations and the burden of responsibility on Larry''s shoulders, especially as he ponders the future of his siblings. As the narrative progresses, an emergency arises when a runaway locomotive threatens a freight train, compelling Larry and his friend Dick Maxwell to act heroically. Their daring chase to stop the chaotic runaway sets the stage for Larry’s journey, highlighting his courage and initiating his quest for greater opportunities in the railroad business. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74848,500,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74848,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74849,520,'"The Christmas Earnings: Or, Ethel Fletcher''s Temptation" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story centers around Ethel Fletcher, a young girl grappling with her family''s recent financial struggles and their impact on traditional Christmas celebrations. Throughout the narrative, Ethel navigates her feelings of disappointment, the temptation to act dishonestly, and her desire to find a way to contribute to her family''s holiday spirit.  At the start of the book, Ethel''s cousin Abby prompts her to consider how to make money for Christmas gifts, which brings Ethel''s awareness of her family’s diminished circumstances to the forefront. Ethel reflects on her father''s financial failure and her family''s previous affluence, leading her to feel unsatisfied and frustrated by their current situation. The characters are introduced as Ethel has a tense exchange with her Aunt Sally, who often expresses harsh opinions about Ethel''s father, highlighting Ethel''s internal conflict between honoring family connections and standing up for her father. As she desires to help her family, Ethel begins to explore ways to earn money through painting, setting the stage for her journey of self-discovery and moral growth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74849,500,'Reading ease score: 78.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74849,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74849,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74850,520,'"Presidentin kilpakosijat" by Anthony Hope is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in the fictional South American republic of Aureata during the late 19th century, the story unfolds against a backdrop of political instability and the efforts of its first president, Marcus W. Whittingham, to establish a prosperous nation. The narrative centers around the main character, Mr. Martin, who becomes entangled in the complexities of government finances and power struggles, particularly in relation to the president''s ambitious projects and the impending dangers surrounding national debt.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to Aureata, a nation struggling to realize its founding ideals amid economic turmoil and a mix of political intrigue. Mr. Martin, a young bank officer, arrives in the capital, Whittingham, as the president grapples with the harsh realities of governance and the growing dissent from opposition forces. As Martin navigates his role within the banking system and the precarious economic situation, he finds himself intertwined with the lives of key figures, including the charismatic president and the intriguing Signorina Christina Nugent, adding layers of personal conflict and moral ambiguity to the political landscape. Through Martin''s experiences, the stage is set for a tale of ambition, loyalty, and the inherent risks of a nation on the brink of transformation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74850,500,'Reading ease score: 35.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74850,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74850,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74851,520,'"The Story of Robinson Crusoe in Latin" adapted from Daniel Defoe''s famous book is an adaptation of a novel likely written in the early 20th century. This work presents the adventures of the iconic character Robinson Crusoe, as he navigates the challenges of survival on a deserted island after being shipwrecked. It aims to provide a Latin learning experience while engaging young readers with a story they might already be familiar with.  The opening of this adaptation sets the stage for Crusoe''s formative years and his eventual departure into the unknown. We are introduced to Crusoe''s family, particularly focusing on his relationship with his ambitious father and his desire for adventure over a conventional life. Following his rebellious decision to leave home for a seafaring life, readers witness his initial dreams of exploration quickly turn into a dramatic encounter with a tempest at sea that results in shipwreck. As he reflects on his actions amidst the chaos, the narrative foreshadows the profound struggles and transformations he will face on his journey to self-discovery and survival in solitude. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74851,500,'Reading ease score: 48.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74851,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74851,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74852,520,'"A Message from Mars: A Fantastic Comedy in Three Acts" by Richard Ganthony is a play written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Horace Parker, a self-centered astronomer who becomes the subject of a celestial intervention from a messenger from Mars, triggering a reflection on his selfishness and egotism. This witty piece delves into themes of human connection, responsibility towards others, and the absurdities of the social behaviors of the time.  The opening of the play introduces us to Horace Parker, who is engaged to Minnie Templar but seems more absorbed in his scientific pursuits than in attending a dance with her. Minnie is frustrated with Horace''s indifference, and Aunt Martha, his guardian, expresses concern about his selfish nature. As the dialogue unfolds, it becomes clear that Horace''s obsession with his work and his narrow view of the world have strained his relationships. Eventually, a mysterious tramp arrives with a letter, setting the stage for the arrival of the Messenger from Mars, who will challenge Horace’s perception of life and teach him crucial lessons about love and selflessness amidst humorous exchanges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74852,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Message_from_Mars_(play)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74852,500,'Reading ease score: 87.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74852,480);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74852,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74853,520,'"Il faut marier Jean!" by Henri Ardel is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Jean Dautheray, a wealthy young man navigating the pressures of marriage in a society eager to see him settled. His mother, Mrs. Dautheray, is keen on marrying him off, and the narrative explores the societal expectations and personal desires surrounding matrimony.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Mrs. Dautheray, who is determined to find a suitable match for her son, Jean. As she reads through letters from potential brides, it''s clear that Jean, now a young man recently returned from the war, is reluctant to embrace the expectations that come with marriage. He values his freedom and yearns to live life at his own pace, engaging in leisurely pursuits like painting and enjoying social events. The contrast between his mother''s eagerness for him to settle down and his own desire for independence sets the stage for the unfolding drama and humor as the characters navigate their relationships and societal norms. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74853,500,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74853,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74853,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74854,520,'"Cantos: Colecção de poesias" by Antônio Gonçalves Dias is a collection of poetry written in the mid-19th century. The collection reflects on themes such as nature, love, and the cultural identities of Brazil and Portugal, capturing the spirit of the time and the depth of the author''s emotions and experiences. Gonçalves Dias is a key figure in Brazilian literature, and his work, filled with lyrical beauty, explores the contrasts between the two countries during a period of change.  The opening of the collection establishes a profound sense of nostalgia and introspection, as the author grapples with his feelings of exile and longing for his homeland. Through poems such as "Canção do Exilio," he vividly describes the beauty of his native land, evoking imagery of nature and the emotional ties to it. The poems reflect not only personal sentiments but also broader cultural reflections — the vigor of Brazil contrasted against the sorrow of Portugal''s decline during that era. The tone is contemplative, presenting a juxtaposition of hope for the future against a backdrop of historical and personal lamentation, setting the stage for the diverse themes explored throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74854,500,'Reading ease score: 58.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74854,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74854,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74855,520,'"Landesverein Sächsischer Heimatschutz — Mitteilungen Band XV, Heft 3-4" is a collection of regional publications focused on local heritage, folklore, and conservation efforts, likely written in the early 20th century. The text features articles that document and celebrate the historical, cultural, and natural aspects of the Saxony region, including landmarks, wildlife, and traditional crafts.  The opening portion of the publication begins with transcription notes on how the original text has been formatted, indicating a careful preservation of historical documents. The first article, by Hugo Krämer, describes the beauty and history of Wermsdorf and its castles, capturing the essence of a serene landscape intertwined with royal hunting traditions. The subsequent articles appear to address various topics, from the local pottery craft by Edgar Hahnewald to a tribute to the last windmill in Vogtland, illustrating a commitment to documenting and preserving regional cultural heritage. This introductory part sets a tone of nostalgia and appreciation for Saxon history and the changing landscapes of its rural life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74855,500,'Reading ease score: 67.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74855,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74855,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74856,520,'"Social Life in England, 1750-1850" by F. J. Foakes-Jackson is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work aims to explore and depict the social fabric of England during the 18th and early 19th centuries through various personalities and their experiences. The book focuses particularly on John Wesley, a notable figure of this era, as a lens to understand the societal norms, challenges, and cultural shifts of the time.  The opening of the book begins with an introduction to John Wesley''s life as a means to illustrate the social climate of England during the 18th century. The author reflects on the complexities surrounding Wesley''s character, emphasizing his insights into the human condition contrasted with the frivolities of his contemporaries. The text delves into Wesley’s background, unpacking his family''s legacy of intellectual and artistic talent, and mapping out his exceptional life as a preacher and social reformer. Foakes-Jackson also highlights Wesley''s critical observations about society, providing a richer context of the period''s moral struggles and social issues connected to the existing religious practices and the rise of Methodism. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74856,500,'Reading ease score: 66.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74856,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74856,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74857,520,'"Empty Churches: The Rural-Urban Dilemma" by Charles Josiah Galpin is a sociological analysis written in the early 20th century. The book addresses the pressing issue of declining church attendance and the overabundance of competing churches in rural America, highlighting the detrimental effects on community cohesion and spiritual life. Galpin argues that rural churches are often underfunded and understaffed, which contributes to a spiritual crisis in areas where the churches should be serving as vital centers of community and faith.  The opening of the book sets a poignant scene in a rural church where a struggling young minister faces a nearly empty congregation, serving as an immediate portrayal of the larger problem of "competitive religion" among numerous denominations that ultimately dilutes the effectiveness and reach of spiritual guidance in these areas. Galpin highlights stark statistics depicting the spiritual neglect of rural populations, such as a significant portion of children growing up without exposure to any religious teachings. Through a mixture of personal anecdotes and alarming research findings, the beginning lays the groundwork for an in-depth discussion on how to address the imbalance in church distribution and the urgent need for churches to better serve their communities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74857,500,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74857,482);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74857,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74858,520,'"Whitehall: Historical and Architectural Notes" by W. J. Loftie is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The text delves into the rich history and architecture of Whitehall Palace, exploring its geographical significance and notable figures associated with its development, such as Cardinal Wolsey and Henry VIII. Loftie''s work offers a scholarly insight into the evolution of this prominent location in Westminster.  The opening of the book details the historical context of the land that would eventually become Whitehall, tracing its significance back to the 12th century and the ownership by the Abbot of Westminster. It discusses the transformation of the area over the following centuries, including the early days of Hubert de Burgh''s residence and the eventual transition to royal hands under Henry VIII. Through references to various documents, landmarks, and notable figures, Loftie lays a foundation for understanding how Whitehall became a vital part of England''s political and royal history, setting the stage for the events that would unfold within its walls. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74858,500,'Reading ease score: 68.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74858,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74858,425);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74859,520,'"Yölintu : Kuvauksia menneiltä ajoilta" by Maila Talvio is a historical narrative likely written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in a rural setting, primarily focusing on the lives of the inhabitants of Yölintu manor, including the young lord Jaakko von Toll and the struggles they face amidst personal and environmental dangers, such as wildfires and poverty. The novel explores themes of family, societal roles, and the tensions between different social classes.  The opening of the book introduces the setting of Yölintu manor, where the youth and beauty of the von Toll family are portrayed against a backdrop of foreboding events, starting with the ominous atmosphere created by a devastating fire. The narrative captures moments of daily life, revealing the dynamics among characters such as the ever-vigilant eversti, his wife Mathilda, and their children, including Jaakko, who appear to carry a complex legacy. As their lives intertwine with the local community, the characters grapple with the implications of social expectations and crises, setting the stage for deeper exploration of their lives in a time of turmoil. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74859,500,'Reading ease score: 44.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74859,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74859,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74860,520,'"Elsie: A Christmas Story" by Alexander Lange Kielland is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story is set within a vibrant yet troubled community, focusing on the life of a young girl named Elsie, also known as Loppen, who grows up in a household filled with various characters, including a quack doctor and her aristocratic benefactor, Miss Falbe. The book highlights themes of social class, moral struggles, and the impact of one''s environment and choices as it follows Elsie''s journey through life, love, and hardship.  The opening of the novel introduces Madam Speckbom, a healing quack who operates out of "Noah''s Ark," a rickety building that houses an assortment of tenants, including Elsie and the stern Miss Falbe. As Elsie grows up under Madam Speckbom''s care, we learn of her enchanting yet difficult past as a foundling, her kind-hearted nature, and her interactions with other residents, including the chaotic "gang" living in the attic. The narrative sets the stage for the complexities of her character, hinting at future conflicts involving love and societal expectations, while establishing her relationships with others such as the troubled Christian Falbe and the charming yet impulsive Svend. The beginning vividly paints both the setting and the delicate balance of brutality and tenderness that life can hold for its characters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74860,500,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74860,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74861,520,'"Messieurs les ronds-de-cuir" by Georges Courteline is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story explores the lives of bureaucrats in a government office, focusing on the experiences of Lahrier, who navigates the absurdities and frustrations of administrative life. Through a mix of satirical humor and keen observation, the narrative portrays the intricacies of a workplace filled with peculiar characters and the conflicts inherent in their daily routines.  The opening of the novel introduces the character Lahrier, who is caught in traffic due to a passing regiment, leading to reflections on his reluctance to arrive at work on time. As he enjoys a spring afternoon in Paris, he contemplates the tension between his desire for leisure and the demands of his job in the Direction Générale des Dons et Legs. The narrative highlights Lahrier''s internal struggle regarding his responsibilities and his dissatisfaction with the bureaucratic structure he is part of. The tone is marked by humor and a sense of irony as Lahrier daydreams about fleeing the office, setting the stage for a story that critiques the inefficiencies and absurdities of government work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74861,500,'https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messieurs_les_ronds-de-cuir',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74861,500,'Reading ease score: 70.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74861,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74861,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74862,520,'"Suuri lähetystö: Muistoja ja tuokiokuvia" by John William Nylander is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work reflects on a significant period in Finnish history, likely relating to political events and national identity, as it documents the experiences of Nylander, who was a member of a delegation from Tammisaari.  At the start of the narrative, Nylander reflects on the ominous atmosphere prevailing in Finland, following a critical declaration that threatened the nation''s identity. He describes the waves of rumors and the palpable sense of dread among the citizens. The opening conveys strong emotions of loss and trepidation, with characters such as local politicians and ordinary people grappling with the implications of these changes. The author also sets the stage for the formation of a grand delegation aimed at addressing these challenges, suggesting a burgeoning activism among the Finnish populace. This beginning establishes the emotional and political stakes of Nylander’s journey, drawing readers into a poignant story about perseverance and national aspiration. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74862,500,'Reading ease score: 33.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74862,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74862,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74863,520,'"Calixte; ou, l''introduction à la vie lyonnaise" by Jean Dufourt is a novel written in the early 20th century. This work offers an insightful examination of the social customs and complexities of life in Lyon through the eyes of a Parisian newcomer. The primary character, Philippe Lavrignais, navigates his transition from the fast-paced life of Paris to the subtler, more intricate social fabric of Lyon, particularly through his interactions with his friend Calixte.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to Philippe''s arrival in Lyon, where he is greeted by his old friend Calixte, who provides a glimpse into the city''s social atmosphere. As Philippe begins to explore Lyon, he experiences both confusion and fascination, witnessing the stark contrasts between the city''s seemingly mundane exterior and its rich, layered social life. He quickly realizes that understanding Lyon''s society requires navigating its intricate hierarchies, manners, and unspoken rules, often leaving him bewildered. The narrative sets up a contrast between Philippe’s initial perceptions and the actual complexities of Lyonnaise life, setting the stage for further exploration of themes like social acceptability and moral standards in the chapters that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74863,500,'Reading ease score: 75.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74863,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74863,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74864,520,'"The Principles of Science: A Treatise on Logic and Scientific Method" by W. Stanley Jevons is a detailed scientific publication written in the late 19th century. The work explores the foundations of logic and the scientific method, addressing how reasoning can be applied to both physical and societal phenomena. By examining the principles behind inductive and deductive reasoning, the book aims to enhance understanding of how scientific inquiry is conducted.  The opening of the book sets the stage for a deep exploration of the relationship between reasoning and scientific discovery. Jevons discusses the rapid advancement of physical sciences compared to the slower evolution of logical theory, emphasizing the importance of understanding the methods of reasoning utilized in scientific practice. He aims to establish that there is no distinct method of induction separate from deduction; instead, induction operates as an inverse of deduction. The early chapters introduce foundational laws of thought, identity, and the nature of inference, indicating a rigorous approach to building a comprehensive framework for scientific reasoning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74864,500,'Reading ease score: 47.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74864,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74864,472);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74865,520,'"Where the Atlantic Meets the Land" by H. Caldwell Lipsett is a collection of narratives written in the late 19th century. The text explores the lives and experiences of various characters within an Irish coastal community, intertwining elements of nature, culture, and folklore. The opening portion introduces key characters, particularly Terry Gallagher and Bella Sweeny, as they navigate their budding romance against the backdrop of breathtaking landscapes and local legends.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Terry and Bella, who enjoy a holiday at Kilcross, a scenic location that evokes the beauty and dangers of the surrounding sea. Their interaction reflects a typical courtship within their working-class context, accompanied by Terry''s earnest proposals contrasting with Bella''s pragmatic responses. This initial setting illustrates the characters'' simple pleasures and deep-rooted connection to their environment, providing a glimpse into their personal aspirations and the societal constructs that influence their lives. The emotional undercurrents of their relationship foreshadow deeper themes of love, aspiration, and the turbulence of human connection, which the rest of the collection likely continues to explore. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74865,500,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74865,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74865,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74866,520,'"Stories of New York" by Trumbull, Hibbard, Perry, Wharton, and Wood is a collection of short stories likely written in the late 19th century. The anthology captures the essence of life in New York City, reflecting its diverse characters and experiences through various narratives. Each story provides a glimpse into the complexities of urban life, often exploring relationships, societal norms, and personal aspirations against the backdrop of this vibrant metropolis.  The opening of "Stories of New York" introduces several characters and their intertwining lives, exemplified in the comedietta "From Four to Six" by Annie Eliot, where we meet Esther Van Dyke and Harold Whitney. The scene is set in Esther''s drawing-room, as she prepares for an afternoon tea while reflecting on her past love with Harold, who just returned from a lengthy trip. As they engage in witty banter and navigate the awkwardness of their reunion, the reader senses the tension of unresolved feelings and the societal expectations that shape their interactions. The beginning of this anthology promises a rich exploration of human emotion and the intricate dynamics of life in the bustling heart of New York. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74866,500,'Reading ease score: 82.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74866,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74866,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74867,520,'"Oxy-Acetylene Welding Manual" by Lt. Lorn Campbell, Jr., is a technical manual written in the early 20th century. The book serves as a comprehensive guide for beginners in the field of oxy-acetylene welding, aiming to standardize the teaching method for both instructors and students. Its primary focus is on the principles, apparatus, and practices related to welding and cutting metals using the oxy-acetylene method, illustrating both the theoretical underpinnings and practical techniques involved.  The opening of the manual sets the stage by highlighting the increased demand for skilled operators in oxy-acetylene welding, especially in response to its applications during and after the World War. Campbell discusses the significance of valuing structured instruction for beginners and points out that previous literature often catered to advanced practitioners rather than novices. He emphasizes the need for a systematic approach to teaching this craft, outlining how the manual will address fundamental concepts and operational procedures to prepare students for practical work in the field. The preface establishes a clear intention to make the manual an essential resource for welding education, guiding the reader towards proficient operation of welding equipment and methods. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74867,500,'Reading ease score: 66.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74867,437);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74867,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74868,520,'"Apina, joka ei ottanut kuollakseen: kertomuksia" by Henry Drummond is a collection of whimsical tales written in the early 20th century. The book centers around an extraordinary monkey named Vekkuli who possesses an uncanny ability to survive numerous attempts on his life, creating a series of comedic and engaging adventures that explore themes of resilience, friendship, and the absurdity of life.  The narrative follows Vekkuli from his chaotic beginnings as a troublemaking pet in a missionary''s home to his unexpected rise to prominence on a ship called the Vulcan. Through a series of misadventures, including being hanged and thrown overboard yet surviving each ordeal, Vekkuli captures the hearts of the crew and becomes a legendary figure. Eventually, he encounters a shepherd on a remote island, further exploring the quirky dynamics between humans and animals. The book weaves together humor and moral lessons while showcasing the enduring spirit of an indomitable monkey, making it a delightful read for those who enjoy lighthearted storytelling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74868,500,'Reading ease score: 39.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74868,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74868,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74869,520,'"Staffordshire Pottery and Its History" by Josiah C. Wedgwood is a historical account written in the early 20th century that details the evolution of the pottery industry in North Staffordshire. The book explores the transformation of potting from a small, localized industry into a large-scale factory business, highlighting the significant figures and innovations that contributed to this growth. It likely delves into various aspects of the trade, including the materials used, the techniques developed, and the socio-economic implications of this industry on the local community.  At the start of the book, Wedgwood introduces the unique connection between the North Staffordshire region and its pottery trade, noting how potting was once a household task before gaining specialization. He outlines the development of the potteries, tracing the origins back to humble beginnings around the 17th century, where individual families created their own pots. The narrative emphasizes the rich history surrounding the development of this trade, calling attention to key elements such as the availability of resources like clay and coal, the early potters'' independence, and the significant historical records that capture the industry''s progression. This introductory portion sets the stage for a detailed examination of the various changes that would follow, including the rise of capitalism and the introduction of steam power, impacting both the craft and the craftsmen. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74869,500,'Reading ease score: 69.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74869,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74869,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74870,520,'"Slang and its Analogues Past and Present, Volume 3" by John S. Farmer and W. E. Henley is a historical dictionary compiled to trace and document slang and colloquial language from various social classes over a span of more than three hundred years. Written in the late 19th century, this volume offers a fascinating glimpse into the evolution of informal English language, with entries detailing the meanings, origins, and usage of diverse slang terms and their equivalents in other languages.   The opening of this dictionary introduces a wide range of slang words beginning with "F" and provides detailed definitions, etymologies, and historical references. For instance, it features words like "flabbergast," which means to astound and has been cited in various literary sources since the 18th century. It also highlights unique terms such as "flimsies" referring to banknotes and "flash," which encompasses the speech and behavior of thieves. This compilation not only educates readers about the quirky and often humorous aspects of slang but also preserves the linguistic history of society''s undercurrents. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74870,500,'Reading ease score: 77.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74870,436);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74870,456);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74871,520,'"On the Phenomena of Variation and Geographical Distribution as Illustrated by the Papilionidæ of the Malayan Region" by Alfred R. Wallace is a scientific publication written in the mid-19th century. The work delves into the study of butterflies, specifically the Papilionidæ family, emphasizing their variation, distribution, and the ecological factors influencing these phenomena. It is a detailed examination rooted in natural history, offering insights into the complexities of species and their adaptations.  At the start of the text, Wallace presents an overview of the significance of studying variations and geographical distribution among butterflies, particularly focusing on the intricacies of the Papilionidæ family. He describes the unique beauty and diversity of these butterflies and how they serve as examples for studying biological variations and environmental influences. Notably, he discusses specific characteristics of their wings that aid in understanding variations, such as their coloration and structure, and he introduces various classifications of these butterflies based on their anatomical features and distribution across the Malayan region, setting the stage for a thorough exploration of this captivating group of insects. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74871,500,'Reading ease score: 64.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74871,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74871,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74872,520,'"Shells" by Ella Wheeler Wilcox is a collection of poems written in the late 19th century. The anthology reflects on themes of love, loss, life, and human emotion, encapsulating both personal and universal experiences through lyrical verses. The author''s ability to capture profound sentiments in a relatable manner makes this work resonate with readers.  The opening portion of "Shells" introduces readers to a variety of poems that explore the intricacies of life and the human condition. The initial poem, "Our Lives," presents the metaphor of life as a song shaped by individual choices, emphasizing the power of agency in crafting one''s emotional experiences. Following pieces such as "The Messenger" and "Idle" delve into themes of loss, grief, and introspection, painting vivid portraits of characters facing profound sorrow and existential contemplation. The opening thus sets the tone for a reflective journey through the joys and heartaches of existence, inviting readers to engage deeply with each poem''s message. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74872,500,'Reading ease score: 85.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74872,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74873,520,'"Poems of Reflection" by Ella Wheeler Wilcox is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. This compilation reflects on themes such as life, love, loss, and the human condition, offering readers a deep and emotional insight into a range of experiences that resonate with universal truths and personal struggles. Wilcox’s lyrical voice invites readers to contemplate the richness and complexities of life through her verse, making it both poignant and relatable.  The opening portion of "Poems of Reflection" introduces several pieces that explore varied themes. It begins with "Bohemia," celebrating a life free from societal constraints and the pursuit of genuine joy, while "Penalty" contemplates the bittersweet nature of happiness and sorrow. The poems depict vivid snapshots of human emotions, ranging from maternal love and loss in "Mother''s Loss" to the struggles of women in a world of societal expectations in "The Women." As the collection progresses, each poem encapsulates a distinct moment or feeling, inviting readers to reflect on their own experiences, leading to a layered understanding of sorrow, aspiration, and introspection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74873,500,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74873,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74873,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74874,520,'"Siwa: The Oasis of Jupiter Ammon" by Sir Charles Dalrymple Belgrave is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the little-known oasis of Siwa in the Libyan Desert, detailing its geography, history, and the unique customs of its inhabitants. Through the author''s experiences as an official stationed there, the narrative captures the essence of life in Siwa, focusing on its historical significance, its connection to ancient civilizations, and the everyday lives of its people who are of Berber descent rather than Arab.  At the start of the book, the author introduces Siwa, a secluded oasis surrounded by the Libyan Desert, highlighting its isolation and the Berber culture that persists there, despite the region''s gradual decline in population. He outlines the accessibility issues to the oasis, emphasizing the rigorous journeys required to reach it by different means, including car and camel caravan. The narrative is imbued with rich descriptions of the landscape and the historical allure of Siwa, touching on its connections to past civilizations like the Greeks and Romans, and setting the stage for deeper explorations into the oasis''s history and the daily lives of its diverse residents. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74874,500,'Reading ease score: 61.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74874,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74874,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74875,520,'"Profitable poultry: Their management in health and disease" by W. B. Tegetmeier is a comprehensive scientific publication written in the mid-19th century. This book delves into the practical aspects of poultry management, focusing on their care, housing, feeding, breeding, and the treatment of diseases. Tegetmeier aims to provide vital information that can assist individuals with little experience in poultry farming, while also promoting the most economically beneficial practices.  The book is structured around various key subjects essential for successful poultry management. Tegetmeier discusses the importance of proper housing, emphasizing the need for dryness and cleanliness to prevent diseases. Feeding practices are explored in great detail, outlining the nutritional value of different grains and foods, and the significance of providing a balanced diet to promote health and egg production. The author also addresses breeding strategies, detailing the characteristics and management of various poultry breeds, such as Cochins, Dorkings, and Spaniards, highlighting their respective advantages and uses. In addition, a significant portion of the book is dedicated to identifying and treating common poultry diseases, providing effective remedies and preventive measures. Overall, Tegetmeier''s work serves as a foundational resource for poultry keepers, facilitating both novice and experienced farmers in improving the health and productivity of their flocks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74875,500,'Reading ease score: 47.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74875,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74875,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74876,520,'"Lady Lucy''s Secret: Or, The Gold Thimble" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the late 19th century. This historical fiction centers around young Lady Lucy, an heiress in early 18th century England, who grapples with the constraints of her upbringing under the tyrannical rule of her Aunt Bernard. The narrative explores themes of childhood, oppression, and the quest for personal freedom as Lucy navigates her loneliness and harsh treatment, yearning for a sense of belonging and affection.  At the start of the story, we meet Lady Lucy, a delicate girl of eleven, who is being raised by her strict Aunt Bernard after losing her mother. Despite her wealth, Lucy feels trapped and isolated, unable to enjoy the carefree life of other children her age. She endures a rigid upbringing filled with strict discipline, and her interactions with Aunt Bernard are fraught with fear and tension. The opening chapters reveal Lucy’s longing for connection and her heartache from her aunt''s cruelty. When Aunt Bernard leaves on a trip, Lucy seizes her fleeting freedom, engaging in joyful activities forbidden by her aunt. However, the situation escalates when her mischief leads to serious consequences. The opening sets the stage for Lucy''s journey towards self-discovery and the pursuit of happiness, laying the groundwork for the conflicts and transformations that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74876,500,'Reading ease score: 87.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74876,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74876,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74877,520,'"Mielialoja" by Lauri Henrik Pohjanpää is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. The book explores a wide range of themes related to human emotions, nature, spirituality, and the transient nature of life, reflecting a deep introspection typical of that period.  The collection encompasses various moods and settings, ranging from the tranquility of nature to darker reflections on sorrow and longing for freedom. The poet uses rich imagery to evoke powerful feelings, addressing topics such as solitude, the passage of time, and the search for meaning. Through its verses, the anthology portrays the contrast between joy and melancholy, weaving a tapestry of emotional experiences that resonate with readers while inviting them to contemplate their own lives and the beauty and pain that exist within it. Each poem presents a unique perspective, highlighting the depth of human experience against the backdrop of both natural beauty and existential reflection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74877,500,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74877,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74877,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74878,520,'"The Game of Life and How to Play It" by Florence Scovel Shinn is a self-help book written in the early 20th century. The book focuses on the principles of spiritual law and positive thinking, suggesting that life is not a battle but a game that can be successfully navigated by understanding and applying these laws. Shinn presents concepts such as the power of words, the importance of imagination, and the necessity of aligning one''s thoughts and actions with a divine design for life.  At the start of the text, Shinn introduces the idea that life functions within a framework of giving and receiving, where one''s thoughts, words, and beliefs directly shape their experiences. She explains various elements of the mind, including the subconscious and superconscious, emphasizing that individuals can change their circumstances by changing their inner thoughts and beliefs. Through illustrative anecdotes, she illustrates how fear, doubt, and negative thinking can manifest into real-life obstacles, while faith, love, and positive intent can lead to prosperity and success. This opening portion sets the stage for deeper explorations into specific laws and affirmations that the author will discuss throughout the book. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74878,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_of_Life_(book)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74878,500,'Reading ease score: 70.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74878,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74878,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74879,520,'"Woman under the Ethnic Religions" by Mrs. Moses Smith is a scholarly examination of the roles and treatment of women within various ethnic religions, written in the late 19th century. This book is a critical account focused on religious perspectives and societal implications regarding women''s rights and roles across different cultures and faiths. Its aim is to explore how these religious systems shape the lives of women and perpetuate their subjugation.  In the book, Mrs. Moses Smith delves into several religions, including Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, and Islam, highlighting the oppressive constructs surrounding women within each. She discusses the historical and contemporary aspects of these religions, emphasizing practices such as child marriage, women’s educational restrictions, and the brutal expectations placed on widows, as seen in Hindu traditions. The author illustrates the cyclical nature of these oppressive structures and argues that the degradation of women affects society as a whole. Through detailed research, she contrasts these systems with Christian principles, advocating for the upliftment and recognition of women''s dignity in both religious and societal contexts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74879,500,'Reading ease score: 67.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74879,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74879,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74880,520,'"The Story of Aaron (so named) the son of Ben Ali: Told by his friends and acquaintances" by Joel Chandler Harris is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The book introduces Aaron, the son of Ben Ali, a unique character with the remarkable ability to understand the language of animals, which draws various curious children from the nearby plantation into his world. Set against the backdrop of a plantation in Middle Georgia, it explores themes of childhood curiosity, folklore, and the intricacies of life during the time of slavery.  At the start of the book, we meet Buster John, Sweetest Susan, and Drusilla, three children living on a plantation who embark on a journey to find Aaron after hearing tales about his ability to communicate with animals. The children, curious and adventurous, are fascinated by the idea of meeting Aaron, who is depicted as a man of mystery and authority among the other enslaved people on the plantation. The narrative reveals their quest to learn from Aaron and interact with the animals, setting the stage for an enchanting blend of realism and magic in the Southern landscape they inhabit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74880,500,'Reading ease score: 89.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74880,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74880,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74881,520,'"Zumalacárregui" by Benito Pérez Galdós is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative centers around the character of Zumalacárregui, a carlist general during the Carlist Wars in Spain, depicting his military campaigns and the complex socio-political landscape of the time. The story explores themes of loyalty, mortality, and the brutal realities of war as it intertwines with personal relationships.  The opening of "Zumalacárregui" introduces the reader to the ongoing military endeavors of the eponymous character, who finds success in his campaign while simultaneously engaging in the brutalities of conflict. As he invades the Ribera de Navarra with his disciplined troops, Galdós vividly portrays the tactics and mindset of a man driven both by ambition and the necessity of harsh leadership during wartime. We are introduced to the grim fate of a captured alcalde, Don Adrián Ulibarri, who prepares for his execution while reflecting on his past and the complexities of human relationships, notably with his former lover Saloma. The beginning sets the stage for a gripping exploration of the intertwining fates of dignity, rebellion, and the constants of human despair amid historical upheaval. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74881,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zumalac%C3%A1rregui_(episodio_nacional)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74881,500,'Reading ease score: 51.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74881,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74881,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74882,520,'"Ennen päivänkoittoa" by Clara Viebig is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in a remote mountain village and revolves around Dr. Erik Dorn and the aspiring writer Irene Lang, who become entangled in an intricate relationship amidst their individual struggles and desires. The narrative explores themes of loneliness, societal expectations, and the conflict between duty and passion.  At the start of the novel, readers are introduced to Dr. Dorn, who is disillusioned with his impending marriage to Anna Broker and feels burdened by the societal obligations that accompany it. He spends time observing Irene, a mysterious woman living across the street, and reflects on his emotions regarding both women. Their first encounter is charged with tension as they share momentary connections and intimate conversations, transcending their initial indifference. The narrative unfolds layers of their personalities, illuminating their dreams, insecurities, and the complexities of love as they navigate the emotional landscapes that connect them. Throughout this early portion, the atmosphere thickens with unspoken desires and the weight of unfulfilled lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74882,500,'Reading ease score: 42.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74882,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74882,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74883,520,'"Poems from the Divan of Hafiz" by Hafiz is a collection of Persian poetry written in the 14th century. This work showcases the mystical and lyrical beauty characteristic of Hafiz''s verse and reflects themes of love, spirituality, and the transcendent nature of existence. The collection serves as a testament to the poet''s profound connection to the divine as well as his portrayal of earthly joys and sorrows.  The opening of the collection presents readers with an introduction to Hafiz''s life and the historical backdrop of 14th century Persia, a tumultuous period filled with political strife. The initial poems emphasize themes of love, longing, and the desire for meaningful connection, using rich imagery and metaphorical language. Hafiz encourages a celebration of life, expertly weaving personal emotions with universal truths. His verses invoke the imagery of gardens, wine, and the beauty of youth while simultaneously acknowledging the pain of loss and the passage of time, inviting readers to explore a spectrum of human experience through the lens of poetic expression. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74883,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Div%C4%81n_of_Hafez',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74883,500,'Reading ease score: 72.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74883,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74883,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74884,520,'"Yves Kerhélo" by Marie Delorme is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a young boy named Yves Kerhélo, who is living in a coastal Breton village. The early chapters depict his family life, the challenges they face, and Yves''s adventurous spirit as he experiences both the joys and hardships of his early years.  The opening portion of the novel introduces readers to the idyllic setting of a June morning in Brittany, where Yves is being baptized. The narrative quickly transitions to the life of the Kerhélo family, painting a vivid picture of their struggles as they navigate the treacherous waters of fate after the death of Yves''s father, a fisherman. The storyline highlights the bond between Yves and his sister Corentine as they reconcile their losses and strive to support each other through adversities, setting the stage for Yves''s journey from boyhood to adulthood, filled with dreams of adventure and the quest for a better life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74884,500,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74884,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74884,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74885,520,'"Motion Pictures, January-June 1975: Catalog of Copyright Entries, Third Series" is a comprehensive catalog of copyright registrations for motion pictures, compiled in the mid-1970s. This publication serves as an official record documenting the copyright claims for various motion pictures during the specified timeframe, including details about the works and their authorship. It is particularly valuable for archival purposes, providing legal evidence of copyright ownership.  The opening portion of this catalog provides an extensive introduction and outlines the structure and contents of the entries. It explains the purpose of the catalog as a legal document, describes how the registrations are organized, and lists the various classes of motion pictures covered. Additionally, it details the types of information included in each entry, such as titles, authors, publication dates, and copyright registration numbers, thereby setting the stage for users to navigate the ensuing catalog effectively. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74885,500,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74885,436);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74885,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74886,520,'"Rena''s Experiment" by Mary J. Holmes is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Rena, along with her cousin Irene Burdick, as they travel to Oakfield for the summer, entangled in a peculiar inheritance arrangement involving marriage due to a quirky will left by Sandy McPherson. The narrative unfolds as Rena grapples with her feelings about the charmed well reputed to reveal one''s future partner, while also navigating her relationship with her charming but proud cousin and potential suitors.  The beginning of the novel introduces the characters and setting with a lively, rich backdrop of rural New England. We meet Rena and Irene, who are preparing to stay at Mrs. Parks'' boarding house, and learn about the local folklore regarding Nannie''s Well, which supposedly holds the key to one''s future love. Sam Walker, who becomes an important figure in the unfolding story, adds a layer of local charm. The opening hints at a deepening romantic subplot involving the cousins and their interactions with the wealthy Reginald Travers, while also foreshadowing the complexities of relationships influenced by unexpected circumstances and the legacies of past generations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74886,500,'Reading ease score: 86.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74886,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74886,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74887,520,'"Memoranda of Art and Artists, Anecdotal and Biographical" by Joseph Sandell is a collection of anecdotes and biographical sketches related to various notable artists, likely written in the late 19th century. This work aims to shed light on the lives and characters of influential artists through entertaining stories that showcase their personalities, struggles, and contributions to the art world. The collection features a range of famous figures, including painters and sculptors from different backgrounds and eras.  The opening of the book introduces the reader to the author''s motivations and challenges in compiling these anecdotes. Sandell expresses a profound love for art and a desire to inspire readers to appreciate the lives of those who have dedicated themselves to artistic pursuits. He mentions his difficulties in obtaining anecdotes directly from contemporary artists, which led him to gather tales from various historical sources. This portion sets the tone for the collection, promising engaging stories that not only entertain but also provoke thought about the impact of art and its creators on society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74887,500,'Reading ease score: 66.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74887,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74887,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74888,520,'"No Talent" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story centers around a young heiress named Amity Bogardus, who struggles with feelings of worthlessness due to her perceived lack of talents and beauty, often retreating into sadness. As the narrative unfolds, it presents themes of self-discovery, kindness, and the hidden value of seemingly small acts of service in the lives of those around her.  The opening of the book introduces Amity as she retreats to a summer-house on her grandfather''s grand estate, reflecting on her homely appearance and lamenting her lack of talents compared to others. She overhears her aunt discussing her shortcomings, which deeply hurts her. Joined later by Mrs. Paget, a sympathetic character, Amity learns the importance of pursuing humility and service to others. The chapter delves into her emotional struggles and loneliness while hinting at her growth as she begins to recognize that she does possess worth through her intentions to help others, starting a journey toward self-acceptance and uncovering her capacity for kindness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74888,500,'Reading ease score: 90.1 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74888,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74888,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74889,520,'"Lahonneita puuristejä" by Viktor Rákosi is a collection of historical narratives written in the early 20th century. The work aims to commemorate the forgotten heroes of Hungary''s fight for independence during the tumultuous years of 1848-49. The narratives within showcase the valor and struggles of various soldiers, encapsulating their sacrifice for national pride amidst overwhelming odds.  The opening of the collection sets the stage with a reflective tone, as the narrator recalls his travels and the haunting images of decayed wooden crosses marking the graves of fallen soldiers in Hungary''s mountains. This evocative imagery reflects on the profound impact of war and the sacrifices made by unknown heroes. The narrator''s journey leads him to contemplate the stories behind these graves, promising to use his literary abilities to build a monument, albeit a humble one, for those who fought and died namelessly. Through a mix of real historical events and personal reflections, Rákosi aims to provide a voice to the overlooked participants of Hungary''s struggle for freedom, blending history with poignant human experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74889,500,'Reading ease score: 45.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74889,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74889,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74890,520,'"Forty-two Years Amongst the Indians and Eskimo: Pictures from the Life of the Right Reverend John Horden, First Bishop of Moosonee" by Beatrice Batty is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book documents the life and work of John Horden, who dedicated over four decades to missionary efforts among Indigenous peoples in Canada, particularly in the regions of Hudson''s Bay and Moose Factory. It highlights his experiences, challenges, and the cultural exchanges he encountered while serving these communities.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to John Horden''s journey, beginning with his departure for Hudson''s Bay in 1851. The opening describes the treacherous voyage, detailing the encounters with ice hazards, the isolation of voyages, and his first impressions of the Eskimo and Indigenous peoples he would come to know. We learn of Horden''s immediate efforts to learn the local languages, and how his deep faith and perseverance drove him to communicate and connect with the people he aimed to serve spiritually. The author sets the tone for a rich portrait of Horden''s missionary endeavors, illustrating not only his professional commitments but also his personal trials and triumphs throughout his remarkable life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74890,500,'Reading ease score: 74.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74890,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74890,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74891,520,'"Historical Record of the Ninety-second Regiment, originally termed ''The Gordon Highlanders''" by Richard Cannon is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. The work chronicles the formation and military endeavors of the Ninety-second Regiment from its inception in 1794 through significant campaigns up to 1850. The narrative sheds light on the regiment''s operations, distinctive engagements, and the commendable conduct of its members during various military circumstances, emphasizing British military history.  The opening of the text introduces a transcriber’s note and general orders regarding the account of services for British Army regiments, highlighting the importance of documenting military achievements. Following this, the preface outlines the necessity of recognizing the valor of British soldiers to inspire future service members, while mentioning a series of historical events leading to the regiment''s formation. The narrative notes the actions of the Ninety-second Regiment, including its early deployments and notable battles, setting the stage for a detailed historical account filled with commendations, distinctions, and illustrations related to its service in the British Army. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74891,500,'Reading ease score: 55.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74891,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74891,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74892,520,'"Twelve Poems by Edith Wharton" is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century by the American author Edith Wharton. Known primarily for her novels and contributions to literature, Wharton explores themes of beauty, nature, love, and loss in this lyrical work. The poems reflect a deep engagement with both personal and universal experiences, often evoking vivid imagery from the natural world and human emotion.  The collection features twelve poems, each offering a unique perspective on various aspects of life and death, as well as the interplay between human experiences and the surrounding environment. Wharton delves into the beauty of nature, the poignancy of memory, and the impact of grief and love. Through the use of rich language and vivid imagery, Wharton captures the fleeting moments of existence, illustrating how deeply intertwined human emotions are with the beauty of the world. The voices within these poems express longing, reflection, and a quest for meaning in the midst of life''s impermanence, making this collection a poignant exploration of the human condition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74892,500,'Reading ease score: 73.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74892,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74892,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74893,520,'"Cousin-hunting in Scandinavia" by Mary Wilhelmine Williams is a travel memoir written in the early 20th century. This work chronicles the author’s journey as she explores her Scandinavian heritage, sharing her experiences and encounters with relatives living in the region. The narrative aims to bridge the gap between American descendants of Scandinavians and their relatives who remained in their ancestral homeland, showcasing the cultural connections and similarities between them.  The opening of the book sets the stage for Williams'' adventure as she arrives in Copenhagen, Denmark, reflecting on her roots and the significance of Scandinavia in shaping her ancestry. The author describes her journey from Germany to Denmark with vivid imagery, detailing her first impressions of the landscapes and people she encounters. Through her observations of local culture, architecture, and familial connections, she invites readers into her exploration of both the physical and emotional landscapes of her heritage, laying the groundwork for the intimate portraits of relatives and places that will follow in the chapters ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74893,500,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74893,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74893,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74894,520,'"Aristoteles'' Zielkunde" by Aristotle is a philosophical treatise written in the early 4th century BC. The work focuses on the nature of the soul, exploring various definitions, categories, and functions while contrasting Aristotle''s views with those of his predecessor, Plato. It serves as a crucial text in the field of psychology and philosophy, aiming to elaborate a systematic understanding of the psyche and its relation to living beings.  The opening of "Aristoteles'' Zielkunde" introduces the complexities of studying the soul, positioning it as a bridge between the quest for universal truths and the specifics of nature. Aristotle discusses the challenges inherent in defining the soul—a task made more difficult by the need to establish appropriate methodologies and grounding principles for investigation. He highlights that prior philosophical doctrines must be examined and improved upon, setting the stage for a rigorous analysis of the soul''s characteristics and capacities, which will involve distinguishing its essential properties and functions in both a general and a specific context. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74894,500,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74894,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74894,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74895,520,'"Die Wacht am Rhein: Roman" by Clara Viebig is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative focuses on the life of a young mother, Trina, and her experiences as her husband, Feldwebel Rinke, serves in the military in the Rhineland. The story explores themes of family life, societal expectations, and the tensions between different cultures after the shift in power following the Napoleonic Wars.  The opening of "Die Wacht am Rhein" introduces readers to the domestic setting of a young couple, Trina and Rinke, as they welcome their first child, a daughter named Josefine. Amidst the joys and challenges of motherhood, Trina reflects on her relationship with Rinke and the societal pressures they face, particularly as a couple from different cultural backgrounds. As the narrative unfolds, the environment is vividly depicted, contrasting the expectations placed on Trina with her more carefree memories, thus setting the stage for a deeper exploration of her emotional landscape and the family dynamics influenced by military life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74895,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_Wacht_am_Rhein_(Roman)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74895,500,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74895,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74895,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74896,520,'"A Gentle Pioneer: Being the Story of the Early Days in the New West" by Amy E. Blanchard is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The narrative follows the journey of Agnes Kennedy and her father as they emigrate from their old home to forge a new life in the American frontier. The story captures the challenges of frontier life, including hardship, family bonds, and the trials of establishing a home in a wild and untamed land.  The opening of this account introduces us to Agnes and her family as they prepare for their daunting journey. It begins on a stormy night at the Kennedy farm, where they face the reality of separation from their family due to circumstances that require them to move westward. Agnes''s emotional farewell to her mother and siblings sets the tone for the adventure ahead, and her determination to help her father find a new home is palpable. As they start their journey, the hardships of the trail, the danger of wild animals, and the uncharted wilderness come to life, laying the groundwork for Agnes''s evolving role in a world filled with both opportunity and peril. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74896,500,'Reading ease score: 90.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74896,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74896,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74897,520,'"Chinese Fables and Folk Stories" by Mary Hayes Davis and Chow-Leung is a collection of traditional narratives likely written in the early 20th century. This compilation presents a variety of fables that reflect Chinese cultural values and moral lessons, showcasing the significance of kindness, humility, and family devotion through engaging stories often featuring animals and mythical elements.   The opening of the book introduces the reader to a preface discussing the difficulty of translating the deep and complex subtleties of Chinese thought into English. It emphasizes the importance of understanding the cultural and moral undercurrents underlying these tales. For example, the first fable titled "How the Moon Became Beautiful" narrates a poignant story of the Moon''s longing for beauty and recognition, leading to his eventual connection with a kind earth maiden, Tseh-N’io, which encapsulates themes of love and transformation. The subsequent fables continue to deliver insightful moral messages about compassion, respect, and the interconnectedness of life, reflecting the broader philosophy of Chinese literature and societal values. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74897,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_Fables_and_Folk_Stories',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74897,500,'Reading ease score: 89.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74897,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74897,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74898,520,'"L''ami : dialogues intérieurs" by Charles Wagner is a reflective philosophical work likely written in the early 20th century. This book delves into complex themes of pain, faith, and human connection, exploring how individuals cope with suffering through introspective dialogues. The discussions seem to revolve around a mysterious interlocutor, referred to as "L''Ami," who serves both as a counselor and a voice of wisdom, guiding the main character through the trials of existence.  At the start of this thought-provoking text, the author expresses profound feelings about suffering and the necessity of faith to navigate life''s challenges. The protagonists engage in dialogues that reveal their insights and emotional turmoil, as they reflect on love, loss, and the bonds that form between people in moments of pain. The opening portion establishes an intimate and contemplative atmosphere, conveying the notion that sharing grief cultivates a deeper understanding and connection among humanity. The themes of solace and companionship emerge, setting the stage for an exploration of spirituality and the human condition throughout the work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74898,500,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74898,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74899,520,'"The Behaviour Book: A Manual for Ladies" by Eliza Leslie is a guide on etiquette and proper conduct for women, written in the mid-19th century. The text aims to instruct young women on acceptable behavior in various social situations, particularly regarding visiting etiquette and interactions with others. The focus is on promoting decorum and social grace in everyday encounters, pivotal themes in the norms of the period.  At the start of the manual, Leslie discusses the nature of visiting, humorously proposing terms to describe the varying lengths of visits, such as "visitation" for longer stays. She emphasizes the importance of proper etiquette when receiving invitations, making visits, and interacting with hosts and guests. Key recommendations include informing hosts of intended visit lengths, expressing gratitude, and avoiding unwelcome intrusions into private spaces. The opening sets the tone for the practical advice and detailed guidelines that the author continues to provide, indicating her intention to promote thoughtful and respectful social behavior among women of her time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74899,500,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74899,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74899,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74900,520,'"Hyvän-uskoja" by Adalbert Meinhardt is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book revolves around the lives of several characters, primarily focusing on Johannes Heilwig, the landowner of Heilwigshof, and his complex relationships with the people around him, including the artist Paul Gordon and the betrothed Countess Willfriede Markow. The narrative explores themes of transience, human connections, and the weight of expectations.  At the start of the story, a gathering at Heilwigshof marks the end of a family visit, filled with leisurely activities and interactions among guests. Johannes Heilwig and Paul Gordon, an artist who has found refuge at the estate, reflect on their past and present during a quiet moment after the guests have departed. Paul expresses his insecurities and doubts about love and art, while Johannes hints at his upcoming marriage to Countess Willfriede, a decision that starkly contrasts with Paul''s tumultuous feelings toward relationships. As their dialogue unfolds, the contrasting views on friendship, love, and societal pressures emerge, setting the stage for the complexities of both their lives and the lives of those around them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74900,500,'Reading ease score: 50.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74900,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74900,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74901,520,'"Lucia''s Trust" by Catharine Shaw is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story explores themes of duty, sacrifice, and spiritual growth through the experiences of the protagonist, Lucia Carew, who must take charge of her younger siblings when her mother leaves to care for an ill husband. The book centers around Lucia''s inner conflict and the lessons she learns about trust and selflessness during her time managing family responsibilities.  As the narrative unfolds, Lucia grapples with her feelings of disappointment and resentment when her summer of freedom with her cousins is cut short. Faced with the responsibility of caring for her five step-siblings, she initially struggles to find joy in her new role. However, through her interactions with the children and a series of enlightening experiences—such as caring for her ailing brother Evan and confronting her own selfishness—Lucia undergoes a transformation. By the end, she learns that serving others and embracing challenges can lead to profound personal growth and happiness, illustrating the power of faith and family bonds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74901,500,'Reading ease score: 78.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74901,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74901,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74902,520,'"Madeline" by Mary Jane Holmes is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in a small town in New England, it follows the life of Madeline Clyde, a young girl facing significant challenges due to her family''s financial struggles and her desire to help them. The story begins with Madeline preparing for a crucial examination that could lead her to a teaching position, providing the means to support her grandfather and save their home.  The opening portion of the novel introduces the reader to the quaint but contentious town of Devonshire, where a committee has been tasked with evaluating potential teachers. Dr. Holbrook, unfamiliar with the expectations of the role, is reluctantly appointed to assess the candidates, including Madeline. The narrative portrays Madeline''s earnestness and determination, revealing her as a diligent student with high hopes for the examination. As Madeline prepares for her interview with Dr. Holbrook, both excitement and anxiety mingle within her, hinting at the deeper emotional stakes involved. Amidst the unfolding events, the contrast between her humble aspirations and the societal expectations becomes increasingly pronounced, setting the stage for the challenges she will face. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74902,500,'Reading ease score: 72.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74902,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74902,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74903,520,'"Greasy Luck: A Whaling Sketch Book" by Gordon Grant is a richly illustrated account of the whaling industry, likely written in the early 20th century. This book combines art and commentary, offering vivid depictions and descriptions of whaling practices and the life of whalemen, encapsulating a significant period of maritime history. It is not merely an artistic endeavor but also a historical document that illuminates the culture and challenges of whaling during a time when it was a vital industry in New England and beyond.  In "Greasy Luck," Grant takes readers on a detailed journey through the whaling life, beginning with the preparation for a voyage and the intricate crew dynamics on board. The narrative explores various aspects of whaling, such as the construction and operation of whaleboats, the techniques for capturing whales, and the brutal realities of the trade. Readers are introduced to the roles of different crew members, from the captain to the harpooneers, and the skills required to navigate the dangers of hunting whales in open waters. Through a series of illustrations and descriptions, Grant preserves the spirit and struggles of this once-thriving industry, while also hinting at the impending decline of whaling as a profession and the environmental consequences of overharvesting. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74903,500,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74903,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74903,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74904,520,'"A Real Cinderella" by Nina Rhoades is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young girl named Gretel Schiller, who, despite her humble circumstances and lack of familial support, dreams of a more magical life reminiscent of the classic fairy tale Cinderella. The novel explores themes of hope, longing, and the transformative power of music as Gretel navigates her daily life filled with chores, moments of joy, and the wish to experience "fairy-land."  The opening of the book introduces us to Gretel, an orphaned girl living with the Marsh family, who is often treated more like a servant than a relative. Through her interactions with Miss Ada Marsh and her half-heartedly welcoming home life, Gretel dreams of attending opera performances, which she sees as gateways to a beautiful world where she might find happiness. As she grapples with feelings of inadequacy, neglect, and her aspirations, she discovers a ticket to an opera, igniting her desire to escape her reality and seek the enchantment she believes lies beyond her grasp. The initial chapters set the stage for Gretel''s journey through self-discovery, the significance of music in her life, and the contrasting worlds of hope and despair she experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74904,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74904,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74904,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74905,520,'"Pauvre et douce Corée" by Georges Ducrocq is a descriptive account of life in Korea during the early 20th century. This book, written in the early 1900s, explores the intricacies of Korean culture, society, and daily life through vivid observations and rich detail. It offers a glimpse into a nation that, while marked by poverty, displays a heartfelt charm and a profound connection to its traditions.  The narrative primarily illustrates the contrasts of Seoul, from its humble dwellings with thatched roofs to the lively streets filled with traders and everyday citizens. The prose encapsulates the essence of Korean life—highlighting the beauty found in simplicity, the warmth of familial ties, and the intricate customs that define the society. Ducrocq delves into social practices, clothing, and festivals, painting a picture of a people deeply rooted in their cultural heritage despite external pressures. His reflections on the happiness found in their modest means and their natural surroundings evoke both nostalgia and admiration for the resilience of the Korean spirit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74905,500,'Reading ease score: 70.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74905,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74905,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74906,520,'"Der Held und andere Novellen" by Wilhelm Holzamer is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The stories within this volume explore themes of human character and moral conflicts, often featuring strong, individual personalities as they navigate their lives. The opening portion introduces us to various characters and settings that hint at the complexities of social interactions and challenges faced by individuals in their pursuit of identity and belonging.  At the start of the collection, we are introduced to the setting of a local kegeling tournament organized by the Ochsenwirt in Schafbach, where the promise of valuable prizes has drawn many participants and spectators. The dynamic atmosphere reveals the excitement and competitive spirit among the townsfolk, while the narrative begins to hint at the character of a young man named Jean, a skilled servant with a distinguished presence, who becomes a focal point of interest during the event. As we delve into Jean''s background, his struggles with self-identity, and the interplay of relationships around him, we get a glimpse of the themes that will unfold throughout the collection, indicating a rich exploration of life’s challenges and the human experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74906,500,'Reading ease score: 86.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74906,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74906,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74907,520,'"Fryslân: in stik yn njuggen tafrielen yn proaze" by Douwe Kalma is a poetic work written in the early 20th century. The text unfolds in a series of nine episodes, suggesting a thematic exploration of the historical and cultural identity of Fryslân (Friesland) through vivid imagery and dialogue. It delves into aspects of the region''s struggles, aspirations, and its connection to both history and the natural world.  The opening of the book introduces a scene in a forest during May, where a character named Fryslân embodies the essence of her land, calling forth her dreams and deeds. Accompanied by three girls representing Dreams and three boys representing Deeds, she reflects on the beauty of her homeland while interacting with personified elements of nature. This section sets the stage for a narrative rich in symbolism and character dynamics, where Fryslân seeks to understand her identity and aspirations, hinting at deeper historical themes and the unfolding of her story against the backdrop of time and conflict. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74907,500,'Reading ease score: 93.5 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74907,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74907,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74908,520,'"Cuentos escogidos" by Guy de Maupassant is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The collection showcases Maupassant''s exceptional storytelling ability, encapsulating various tales that reflect the human experience, often with an emphasis on the nuances of social life and the struggles of everyday people.   The opening of the collection presents a brief introduction to the nature of Maupassant''s work, elaborating on the enduring popularity of his stories and the significance of his contributions to literature. It highlights his mastery in creating vivid characters, often drawn from the middle class, and his skill in portraying their psychology and circumstances with remarkable precision. The first story, “En el agua,” introduces a narrator who engages in a conversation with a passionate canoer, leading to a reflection on the river''s mysterious qualities before culminating in an eerie adventure that hints at the themes of fear, nature, and the human psyche that are prevalent throughout Maupassant''s tales. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74908,500,'Reading ease score: 60.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74908,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74908,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74909,520,'"The Best Stories of Sarah Orne Jewett, Volume 1" by Sarah Orne Jewett is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The work highlights the rich culture and characters of New England, particularly focusing on the coastal town of Dunnet and its inhabitants. Through her writing, Jewett unveils the beauty and simplicity of rural life, capturing the essence of the land and its people.  At the start of this volume, the narrative introduces the town of Dunnet through the eyes of a returning visitor who finds comfort and familiarity in its landscape. The focus shifts to Mrs. Almira Todd, a local herbalist, who is portrayed as both lively and nurturing. Her garden is filled with herbs, from which she concocts remedies for the townspeople. Through her interactions with a guest, the themes of friendship, simplicity, and the connection between people and their environment are explored. The opening sets a tone of affectionate observation, hinting at deeper stories and relationships that evolve within the quaint coastal community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74909,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74909,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74909,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74910,520,'"Airopaidia: Containing the Narrative of a Balloon Excursion from Chester" by Thomas Baldwin is a historical account written during the late 18th century. This work documents a significant balloon voyage that took place in September 1785, exploring the early days of aërostation and the fascinating phenomena experienced while airborne. The focus of the book details the technical aspects of ballooning, the beauty of aerial views, and the scientific observations made during the flight, providing a unique insight into the complexities of early aviation.  At the start of the narrative, Baldwin reflects on the public''s fascination with aerial voyages and the inadequacies of previous accounts, setting the stage for his detailed and meticulous report. He emphasizes the importance of careful preparation, noting the careful attention given to weather conditions and the mechanics involved in balloon inflation. As Baldwin embarks on the journey, he provides a vivid description of the balloon''s inflation process amidst the excitement of spectators and outlines his inventory of tools and devices taken along for observation and safety. The initial chapters also detail the thoughts and sensations experienced as he ascends, combining a blend of scientific inquiry with the sheer wonder of viewing the earth from the skies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74910,500,'Reading ease score: 65.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74910,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74910,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74911,520,'"Runoja lapsille 1: Luettaviksi kotona ja koulussa" by Abraham Pietikäinen is a collection of children''s poetry compiled in the late 19th century. This book is aimed at providing various poems suitable for reading both at home and in schools, enriching the literary experience of young readers. The likely topic of the book revolves around themes of nature, faith, childhood innocence, and daily life, catering to the moral and educational growth of children.  The content of the book features a diverse array of poems, each touching upon different aspects of childhood and the natural world. It includes morning prayers, songs of gratitude, seasonal poems, and stories of children engaging with their environment, such as playing in the summer or reflecting on the passage of time. Noteworthy is the poem "Pikku Liina," which narrates the story of a virtuous and happy little girl, while other poems celebrate the joy of festivities like Christmas and the beauty of nature throughout the seasons. The collection aims not only to entertain but also to instill moral values, faith, and appreciation for one''s surroundings in its young readers, making it a valuable contribution to children''s literature of its time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74911,500,'Reading ease score: 61.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74911,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74911,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74912,520,'"The Indian Queen" by Ann S. Stephens is a historical novel likely written in the mid-19th century. The story is set in the early days of American Indian tribes and follows the complex character of Mahaska, a half-white, half-Indian woman who rises to power among the Seneca tribe. Her struggle for acceptance and authority, juxtaposed with her ruthless ambition to avenge perceived wrongs and dominate the tribe, serves as the core tension of the narrative.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to a council of the Iroquois tribes gathered around a council-fire beside Seneca Lake, where Mahaska stands as a powerful figure, attempting to assert her influence despite opposition from some traditional chiefs. As tensions rise, her ambition is further fueled by the desire to wage war against the Delawares, a neighboring tribe. Following a daring act of retribution against an enemy who disrespected her, Mahaska emerges as both prophet and queen, but her brutal rise to power complicates her relationship with her husband, Gi-en-gwa-tah, and sets the stage for conflict as she weaves a darker plot to shift her tribe''s allegiances from the French to the English. The opening chapters immerse the reader in the fierce dynamic of power struggles, supernatural belief, and personal transformation in a deeply historical context. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74912,500,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74912,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74912,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74913,520,'"Told in Gallant Deeds: A Child''s History of the War" by Marie Belloc Lowndes is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work aims to provide children with a narrative of the Great War that highlights brave actions and noble themes, contrasting the war''s brutal realities with the valor displayed by soldiers and civilians alike.   At the start of the book, the author introduces the context of the Great War, emphasizing the importance of Belgium and its violation by Germany as the catalyst for Britain''s involvement. Through relatable examples, the narrative explains complex themes of loyalty and courage, personified by the "happy warrior," someone who embodies the spirit of bravery amidst chaos. The opening not only sets the stage for the ensuing battles, such as the defense of Liège, but also prepares the reader to explore many heroic tales that will follow in the chapters ahead. Various valiant acts are introduced, demonstrating that acts of heroism can arise even in the direst circumstances, and aiming to instill a sense of pride and understanding in younger readers about their historical heritage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74913,500,'Reading ease score: 74.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74913,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74913,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74914,520,'"Beethoven" by Romain Rolland is a biographical account written in the early 20th century. The work delves into the life, struggles, and artistry of Ludwig van Beethoven, capturing both his personal hardships and the indomitable spirit that fueled his musical genius. Rolland aims to illustrate how Beethoven''s experiences with suffering and isolation contributed to his remarkable achievements and profound impact on humanity.  At the start of the biography, Romain Rolland sets a reflective tone by addressing the unhealthy state of Europe and the human condition of his time. He wishes to showcase figures like Beethoven as moral beacons for the suffering and oppressed. The text provides a glimpse into Beethoven''s challenging childhood, marked by familial struggles and early expectations placed upon him due to his musical talent. Rolland vividly depicts Beethoven''s character, detailing his physical appearance and the emotional volatility that defined him, as well as emphasizing the connection between his personal tribulations and the depth of his musical expression. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74914,500,'Reading ease score: 41.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74914,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74914,460);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74915,520,'"Runoja lapsille 2: Luettaviksi kotona ja koulussa" by Abraham Pietikäinen is a collection of poems written in the late 19th century. This book is designed for children and aims to provide readings suitable for both home and school settings. The topics of the poems range from prayers and morning reflections to themes of nature, childhood, and spirituality, making it a heartfelt tribute to the experiences and emotions of young readers.  The poems in this collection reflect various aspects of childhood, faith, and nature, where each piece conveys a specific sentiment or lesson. For instance, themes such as morning devotion in "Aamu-huokaus," evening prayers in "Lasten iltarukous," and nature''s beauty in "Kukkaistarha" highlight the importance of spiritual and emotional growth during childhood. Other poems, like "Pikku Väinö," narrate the innocence of a child''s life and the bittersweet emotions associated with growing up. Overall, this collection not only serves as a source of entertainment but also delivers moral lessons, encouraging children to reflect on their experiences, beliefs, and the world around them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74915,500,'Reading ease score: 60.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74915,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74915,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74916,520,'"Weather Proverbs" by H. H. C. Dunwoody is a scientific compilation likely written in the late 19th century. The work serves as a collection of popular weather proverbs and prognostics, focusing on the traditional wisdom surrounding weather prediction drawn from nature, particularly the behaviors of animals, plants, and atmospheric conditions. Through this exploration, the book seeks to bridge the gap between folklore and modern meteorological observations, making it a fascinating read for those interested in weather lore and its applications.  The opening of the publication introduces the scope and intention behind the collection, highlighting the collaboration between meteorologists and the general public to gather weather-related sayings. Dunwoody explains that many of these proverbs express observable patterns in the behavior of animals and environmental changes that can precede specific weather phenomena. He emphasizes that while these proverbs encapsulate a form of traditional knowledge—often based on keen observations made by farmers, sailors, and others close to nature—they are not substitutes for modern meteorological science, which relies on systematic measurements and observations. The introduction sets the stage for an extensive collection of proverbs that underscore long-standing human attempts to understand and predict weather changes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74916,500,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74916,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74916,476);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74917,520,'"Pán : Regény" by Knut Hamsun is a novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative revolves around the character Tamás Glahn, a solitary hunter living in the northern wilderness, who contemplates his memories, experiences, and the ephemeral nature of love and companionship. It encapsulates themes of idealism contrasted with the stark realities of life and introduces readers to the profound emotional depths of its characters.  The opening of the novel sets the stage for Tamás Glahn''s introspections about his past, particularly focusing on a time when he lived in a simple cabin surrounded by nature. He recalls vivid memories of the eternal northern summer and his connection with the land, his dog, Asopus, and the fleeting interactions with people in his life. Glahn''s narrative touches on themes of solitude, the beauty of nature, and the underlying melancholy of unfulfilled desires, leading to reflections on a particular young woman named Edvarda. Through Tamás''s contemplative thoughts, readers gain insight into his character, his desires, and the emotional turbulence of longing intertwined with nature''s magnificence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74917,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pan_(novel) https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pan_(Hamsun)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74917,500,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74917,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74917,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74918,520,'"Monica and the Fifth" by Brenda Page is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around the experiences of a group of schoolgirls at St. Etheldreda''s, a boarding school, as they navigate the challenges and social dynamics of their new school year. The main character, Monica Carr, arrives with a dubious reputation after being expelled from another institution, which sets the stage for her interactions with her fellow classmates.  At the start of the novel, the focus is on the first day of a new school year at St. Etheldreda''s. Madge Amhurst, a new prefect, is tasked with welcoming the new students and acclimating them to school life. The atmosphere is filled with the excitement and nervousness of new beginnings, and Madge leads the younger girls through the school, trying to make them feel at home. Meanwhile, the mention of Monica Carr, who has recently joined the Fifth Form, introduces an undercurrent of tension as her past behavior looms over her interactions with the other girls. The beginning sets up both the routine and the challenges that will unfold in school life, establishing themes of friendship, reputation, and personal growth among the students. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74918,500,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74918,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74918,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74919,520,'"Schoolgirl Rivals" by Brenda Page is a novel written in the late 1930s. The story unfolds at an English boarding school, focusing on the experiences of a new student, Kitty Despard, an Australian girl who must navigate the complexities and rivalries of school life. The book captures the challenges Kitty faces as she adjusts to her new environment and the dynamics among different student houses, particularly concentrating on the competition between the girls.  At the start of the narrative, readers are introduced to Kitty Despard as she embarks on her journey to Easthampton College, a prestigious boarding school. As she travels from Australia, she is filled with a mixture of excitement and apprehension surrounding her new school life. Once at the school, Kitty encounters a lively group of girls who quickly welcome her but are also embroiled in chatter about school hierarchies, rivalries, and the low reputation of her assigned house, Carslake''s. The early interactions highlight Kitty''s strong personality and athletic prowess, positioning her as a potential catalyst for change within her lackluster house as she embarks on various sports challenges, setting the stage for a narrative rife with competition, friendships, and personal growth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74919,500,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74919,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74919,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74920,520,'"Die Eroberung von Peru: Historische Originalnovelle" by Alonso de la Avecilla is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. It explores the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire, focusing on the motivations and actions of key figures such as Francisco Pizarro and the cultural implications of their actions. The narrative appears to delve into both the valor and the brutality of the Spanish conquests against the backdrop of the richness of Peruvian civilization.  At the start of the novel, the editor notes the historical context of the sixteenth century in Europe, highlighting the socio-political climate that propelled the Spanish explorers to the Americas. The opening reflects on the complexities of religious fanaticism, European arrogance, and the dire consequences of colonial endeavors as depicted through the lens of Columbus''s expeditions, leading to the imminent arrival of Pizarro in Peru. As Pizarro and his companions set their sights on the riches of Peru, the narrative prompts readers to consider the cultural ignorance and condescension displayed by the Spaniards toward the indigenous population, setting the stage for the ensuing conflict. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74920,500,'Reading ease score: 55.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74920,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74920,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74921,520,'"Lucy Harding: A Romance of Russia" by Mary J. Holmes is a historical romance novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows Lucy Harding, a determined American woman from Massachusetts, who embarks on a journey to St. Petersburg amidst her fascination with Russian culture and her memories of a captivating language teacher named Nicol Patoff. As she navigates the complexities of Russian society and potential political unrest, Lucy becomes entangled in personal and larger societal conflicts, creating a rich tapestry of romance and adventure.   The opening of the novel introduces Lucy as part of a group of American female tourists on their way to St. Petersburg, highlighting her character as independent and resourceful. She reflects on her educational background with Nicol Patoff, her charismatic teacher whose enigmatic past ignites her curiosity. As she arrives in Russia, Lucy''s experiences with local customs and her encounters with various characters, including a stern gendarme and the vibrant streets, foreshadow the challenges she will face in this foreign land. Within these initial pages, the tension builds around Nicol''s mysterious circumstances and the potential dangers of living in a politically charged environment, setting the stage for Lucy''s adventures and growing emotions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74921,500,'Reading ease score: 87.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74921,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74921,473);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74922,520,'"The Silent Cabin" by Evan Merritt Post is a short story written in the late 1920s. This fictional work is set against the backdrop of the rugged Alaskan wilderness during the harsh winter months. The narrative centers on themes of solitude, mortality, and the human spirit''s inherent compassion. The story explores the intersection of two vastly different characters as they confront life and death in the remote, unforgiving landscape.  The plot unfolds as two men, Steel and Miller, journey through the snowy terrain when they discover a cabin containing a dying man, Farrell, who has left behind a poignant last request. The story poignantly illustrates Steel''s internal conflict as he grapples with the choice to abandon his selfish desires and honor Farrell’s wish for a proper burial. In a twist of fate, after committing to his choice, Steel uncovers a hidden treasure that validates his decision’s worthiness. Ultimately, the narrative reflects the values of altruism and the profound impact of respect and dignity in life’s final moments. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74922,500,'Reading ease score: 92.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74922,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74923,520,'"Runoja lapsille 3: Luettaviksi kotona ja koulussa" by Abraham Pietikäinen is a collection of children’s poetry compiled for reading at home and school, published in the late 19th century. This work is intended to engage young readers with a variety of poems that are likely focused on themes of nature, spirituality, and Finnish culture. The collection showcases the beauty of Finnish language and folklore, making it a valuable literary resource for children during that era.  The book features a diverse range of poems, many of which include prayers, songs, and reflections on childhood and nature. For instance, pieces like "Rukous" (Prayer) and "Jouluvirsi" (Christmas Song) connect deeply with themes of spirituality and celebration, while "Laulu lapsille" (Song for Children) emphasizes the joy and innocence of childhood. The content encourages children to appreciate their surroundings, foster a connection with their heritage, and express their feelings through poetry. Overall, this collection not only serves as a delightful introduction to poetic literature for children but also reflects the cultural values and beauty of Finland during the late 1800s. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74923,500,'Reading ease score: 59.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74923,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74923,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74924,520,'"Valikoima satuja" by Hanna Cederholm is a collection of fairy tales written in the early 20th century. The stories feature a variety of characters and whimsical plots, exploring themes of adventure, love, and morality, with settings ranging from enchanted forests to royal courts. The opening tale highlights a baker and his seven donkeys, each named after musical notes, as they embark on daily adventures that entwine music and kindness in a bustling city.  At the start of the collection, we meet a skilled baker who finds joy in playing his flute while managing his bakery. He has seven donkeys, each named after the musical scale, and uses music to summon them for deliveries. The townsfolk admire his talent, and even the king becomes curious about this unique baker and his remarkable donkeys. However, a twist occurs when a royal crown jewel goes missing, and the baker is unjustly blamed, leading to a frantic search for the jewel, intertwining the everyday with the extraordinary. This narrative sets the tone for a world where magic and reality blend seamlessly, inviting readers to explore further into the lives of its enchanting characters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74924,500,'Reading ease score: 51.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74924,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74924,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74925,520,'"The Greek Orators" by J. F. Dobson is a scholarly work that presents a concise overview of the significant orators of ancient Greece, written in the early 20th century. The book aims to provide readers with a comprehensive understanding of the works and styles of various Greek orators by including numerous quotations, making it accessible to classical enthusiasts and general readers alike. It serves as both an introduction to the art of Greek rhetoric and a historical reference for the evolution of oratory in ancient Greece.  The opening of the text introduces the concept of oratory as an essential social practice, detailing its development from public discourse among early Greek leaders to the refined techniques employed by later figures such as Lysias and Demosthenes. It discusses how the earliest notions of oratory were apparent even in the works of Homer, highlighting a natural propensity for persuasive speech. The content emphasizes that while oratory grew as a necessary skill within democratic structures, it was shaped by various influences, including sophists and the early rhetorical traditions. This sets the stage for a thorough exploration of individual orators and the distinct styles they employed, indicating the book''s aim to provide both historical context and analysis of their rhetorical contributions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74925,500,'Reading ease score: 57.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74925,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74925,456);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74926,520,'"The Golden Windmill and Other Stories" by Stacy Aumonier is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book explores various themes within human nature and relationships, providing glimpses into characters'' lives and emotions, often with a blend of humor and poignancy. The opening story, “The Golden Windmill,” centers around Monsieur Roget, a middle-aged man enjoying a moment of reflection during a family picnic, which quickly spirals into memories of a youthful romance.  At the start of “The Golden Windmill,” we meet Monsieur Roget and his family on a picnic in Fontainebleau, where he takes a moment to appreciate the beauty of the day. As he settles down, he is drawn into a wave of nostalgia, recalling a pivotal encounter from thirty-seven years ago with a girl named Diane. This reflection unveils his past, revealing his youthful innocence and the complexity of love, juxtaposed against his current life filled with family and success. Just as Roget begins to savor the simplicity of life, a sense of curiosity sparks as he recognizes familiar yet altered landscapes, prompting a deeper exploration of how time and choices shape one’s destiny. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74926,500,'Reading ease score: 84.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74926,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74926,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74927,520,'"Du Cameroun au Caire par le désert de Libye: Chasses au Tchad" by Bruneau de Laborie is a travel account written in the early 20th century. This work chronicles the author’s expedition from Cameroon to Cairo, traversing the unexplored regions of Libya''s desert and focusing particularly on hunting in Chad. The narrative likely encompasses both personal experiences and broader geographical and cultural observations along this challenging journey.  The opening of the work sets the stage for the author''s expedition, detailing the preparations for his journey authorized by the French colonial ministry. Bruneau de Laborie describes the atmosphere aboard the ship as he embarks from Bordeaux, highlighting his unease during rough seas and the melancholy of departure. He keenly anticipates his return to Africa, expresses his intent to document his observations, and prepares for the challenges of exploration ahead. The beginning provides a glimpse into the author''s reflective mindset, his excitement for what lies ahead, his necessity for thorough preparation, and the socio-political context of his travels. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74927,500,'Reading ease score: 70.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74927,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74927,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74928,520,'"Cycling Art, Energy, and Locomotion: A Series of Remarks on the Development of Bicycles, Tricycles, and Man-Motor Carriages" by Robert P. Scott is an informative publication written in the late 19th century. This work is focused on the principles of cycling, exploring the mechanical and physical aspects of bicycles and their evolution, while addressing the technological advancements that have impacted personal locomotion. Scott''s objective seems to be not only to educate readers on the technical mechanics of cycling but also to promote greater appreciation and understanding of the cycling community and its culture.  At the start of the text, the author emphasizes the historical significance of locomotion and the advancement of mechanical transportation, presenting the idea that the development of the cycle art represents a pivotal moment in personal transportation. He outlines the mechanisms and principles that underpin how bicycles operate, including insights into energy efficiency and human anatomy in relation to cycling performance. Scott conveys a sense of enthusiasm for the subject, as he introduces the various types of cycles and their specific mechanics, hinting at a more intricate analysis that challenges conventional understandings of movement and efficiency in cycling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74928,500,'Reading ease score: 58.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74928,437);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74928,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74929,520,'"The Merivale Banks" by Mary Jane Holmes is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around two competing banks in the small town of Merivale—the First National Bank, run by the arrogant Judge White, and the newly established Grey Bank, headed by the likable Mr. Grey. The narrative appears to explore themes of class distinction, rivalry, and the dynamics of social status, particularly through the experiences of the judge''s son, Herbert White, and Louie Grey, the banker’s daughter.  At the start of the novel, the scene is set with a detailed description of the two banks side by side, illustrating the pride of Judge White in his institution and wealth. The characters are introduced, particularly the contrasting personalities of Judge White and Mr. Grey, highlighting the judge''s haughty demeanor and obsession with pedigree versus Mr. Grey’s more affable and down-to-earth nature. As the story unfolds, tension escalates with a banking crisis that leads to a run on the First National Bank, spurred by jealousy and rumors, prompting Louie to take bold action to save both banks. The opening establishes the intricate relationships and conflicts that will likely drive the plot forward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74929,500,'Reading ease score: 85.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74929,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74929,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74930,520,'"Memoirs and Resolutions of Adam Graeme of Mossgray, Including Some Chronicles of the Borough of Fendie" by the author of "Passages in the Life of Mrs. Margaret Maitland" is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The book centers on the life of Adam Graeme, reflecting on his solitary existence at Mossgray, his interactions with family and friends, and his philosophical musings on life, loss, and identity. The narrative unfolds through Adam''s recollections, adding depth to his character as he grapples with grief and nostalgia.  The opening of the novel introduces Adam Graeme as he reflects on his birth and the bittersweet circumstances surrounding it, including the loss of his mother. The tone is introspective and melancholic, capturing Adam''s sadness as he recounts his father''s neglect and the haunting memories of his childhood home, Mossgray. The narrative is rich with descriptions of the natural landscape surrounding Mossgray, as well as the emotional complexities of Adam''s relationships, particularly with his cousin Charlie Graeme and Lucy Murray. As the story progresses, themes of friendship, ambition, and societal expectations begin to intertwine, setting the stage for Adam''s journey through the challenges of young adulthood and the weight of his family legacy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74930,500,'Reading ease score: 73.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74930,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74931,520,'"Runoja lapsille 5: Luettaviksi kotona ja koulussa" by Abraham Pietikäinen is a collection of poems, likely written in the late 19th century. This compilation is designed for children, featuring themes of morality, nature, and Finnish identity, reflecting the cultural sentiments and values of the time. The work serves as both a literary and educational tool, promoting reading at home and in school.  The book consists of various poems that convey lessons about faith, the beauty of the Finnish landscape, and the importance of national pride and morality. The verses address topics like the ephemeral nature of life, the connection to one''s homeland, and the essence of childhood experiences in Finland. Through its rich imagery and rhythmic language, the collection aims to inspire young readers while nurturing their appreciation for literature and cultural heritage. The poems also celebrate key figures and mythological elements of Finnish folklore, resonating with the emerging national consciousness of Finland during that period. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74931,500,'Reading ease score: 56.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74931,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74931,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74932,520,'"La Vallée du Silence" by James Oliver Curwood is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the vast wilderness of the Canadian North, focusing on characters such as James Grenfell Kent, a man facing imminent death due to a gunshot wound, and the mysterious Marette Radisson, who appears to have an intriguing connection to the events surrounding him. The narrative sets the stage for themes of adventure, love, and the struggle between the encroaching civilization and the untouched wild.  The beginning of the novel introduces the reader to the port of Athabasca, a pivotal gateway to the mysterious adventures of the Great White North. Kent, who is informed by his doctor that he has little time left to live, grapples with existential questions as he reflects on his life and the wilderness he loves. His confessions, meant to absolve an innocent man, lead to revelations about his past and the impact of relationships formed under perilous circumstances. Enter Marette, a captivating character with a connection to the story''s tension, who seems determined to assist Kent, signaling a deeper mystery that promises to unfold as the plot progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74932,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74932,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74933,520,'"An Epitome of Electricity & Galvanism" by Jacob Green and Erskine Hazard is a scientific publication written in the early 19th century. The work serves as a comprehensive introduction to the principles and discoveries related to electricity and galvanism, including various experiments and historical contexts. The authors aim to provide concise yet informative content suitable for both scholars and broader audiences interested in learning about these fascinating topics.  The opening of the publication begins with the authors establishing the context of their work, detailing its purpose and the importance of electricity throughout history. They emphasize the necessity of presenting a concise overview that balances comprehensiveness with accessibility, noting that while details may be omitted in some areas, adequate references to other works will guide readers seeking deeper understanding. As they dive into the content, they provide an overview of ancient and modern knowledge of electricity, highlighting significant figures and their contributions, such as Thales and William Gilbert, ultimately laying the groundwork for further exploration in the chapters that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74933,500,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74933,478);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74933,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74934,520,'"Poems of Evolution" by Langdon Smith is a collection of poems that explores the theme of evolution through a creative lens, likely written in the early 20th century. This book delves into the philosophical and biological aspects of evolution, presenting them in a poetic format that merges science with artistic expression. The content reflects the growing interest in evolutionary theory during this time period, making it a significant work that captures both the scientific and existential musings of humanity''s origins.  In this collection, Smith, alongside other poets, articulates the journey of life from its simplest forms to complex beings, emphasizing the interconnectedness of all living entities. Through vivid imagery and lyrical narratives, the poems encapsulate different stages of evolution, drawing from prehistoric times to modern existence. The verses reflect on themes of love, identity, and the continuity of existence, suggesting that the essence of life transcends individual lifetimes. The poems highlight the eternal cycle of life and death, as well as the unifying experience of evolution, beckoning readers to consider their place within the grand tapestry of life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74934,500,'Reading ease score: 72.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74934,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74934,479);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74935,520,'"Lessons from the life of Florence Nightingale" by Charlotte A. Aikens is a biography written in the early 20th century that explores the extraordinary life and contributions of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing. The book chronicles Nightingale''s relentless dedication to service, especially during the Crimean War, where her efforts significantly transformed nursing and hospital care. Aikens provides insights into the challenges Nightingale faced due to societal norms and prejudice against women in nursing, emphasizing her pioneering work and the lasting impact she had on healthcare.  The book delves into Nightingale''s formative years, her unwavering commitment to improving sanitary conditions in wartime and civilian hospitals, and her visionary establishment of nursing education. Aikens discusses how Nightingale''s deep sense of vocation drove her to advocate for trained nurses, leading to dramatic reductions in death rates during the war. It highlights her strategic approaches in reforming healthcare, including her emphasis on hygiene, proper ventilation, and the necessity of skillful nursing. Through her extensive correspondence and writings, Nightingale laid foundations that would continue to influence nursing practices long after her time, making the book not only a tribute to her life but also an important historical document for the nursing profession. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74935,500,'Reading ease score: 62.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74935,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74935,441);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74936,520,'"Gleanings in Europe: England, vol. 1 of 2" by James Fenimore Cooper is a travel account written in the early 19th century. The book provides an observational narrative from an American perspective as the author travels through England, offering reflections on political and social contrasts between England and America.   At the start of the narrative, the author describes his arrival in England, detailing the transition from French to English shores and the initial impressions these landscapes evoke. He notes the differences in character, demeanor, and hospitality between the two nations, while also addressing the prejudices that may exist in both societies toward one another. The opening portion sets the stage for a deeper exploration of English life and culture, as the author plans to share his experiences and observations in a series of letters to various acquaintances, hinting at the broader examination of English customs and their implications for Americans. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74936,500,'Reading ease score: 63.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74936,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74936,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74937,520,'"Gleanings in Europe: England, vol. 2 of 2" by James Fenimore Cooper is a collection of travel letters and observations written in the early 19th century. The work reflects Cooper''s experiences and opinions as an American visiting England, weaving together both personal anecdotes and critiques of British society. Through his letters, he articulates insights on various subjects, including social etiquette, art, and the perceptions of American identity abroad.  The opening portion of the book begins with a transcriber’s note and a list of contents, followed by a series of letters addressed to acquaintances. In these initial letters, Cooper recounts dinners with notable figures in London society, sharing anecdotes that highlight social dynamics and his observations on the characters of various peers and artists. He reflects on the contrast between American and British customs, critiques the exclusivity of English society, and shares his thoughts on the personalities of specific individuals, such as Sir Walter Scott and Mrs. Siddons. Cooper''s narrative is rich with descriptions and a keen eye for detail, setting the tone for a thoughtful exploration of culture and identity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74937,500,'Reading ease score: 61.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74937,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74937,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74938,520,'"Household Words, No. 304, January 19, 1856" conducted by Charles Dickens is a weekly journal that was published in the mid-19th century. This issue discusses various cultural observations about English society, specifically focusing on the insular attitudes and peculiarities distinctly seen within English customs and practices compared to those of their European counterparts. The text reflects Dickens'' critical yet insightful perspectives on societal norms and the impact of insularity on social behavior.  The opening of this particular journal delves into the concept of "insularities," identifying how the English tend to exalt their traditions while often dismissing foreign influences as inferior or strange. Dickens explores practical examples such as fashion, societal behaviors, and public decorum to illustrate how these insular beliefs manifest in everyday life. He critiques the tendency to resist embracing new ideas and trends while highlighting the absurdities of rigid adherence to outdated customs, effectively inviting readers to reflect on the broader implications of such attitudes in their own lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74938,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Household_Words',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74938,500,'Reading ease score: 64.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74938,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74938,454);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74939,520,'"A Little Maid" by Amy Le Feuvre is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young girl named Peggy, who lives in the slums of London and dreams of a better life in service to a kind family. As Peggy navigates her tough upbringing and the challenges that come with her responsibilities at home, she longs for the opportunity to help others and make a difference in their lives.  The opening of the book introduces readers to Peggy, a little girl who is determined yet subjected to the harsh realities of her environment. Living with her aunt, a bitter cripple who makes her life difficult, Peggy dreams of a better future where she can serve a kind lady. Despite her challenging home life, Peggy is a dreamer, frequently imagining her future in service and the good she could bring to those around her. Through her kind-hearted nature and determination, the opening chapters set the stage for Peggy’s journey of self-discovery and growth as she learns what it means to truly serve others. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74939,500,'Reading ease score: 92.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74939,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74939,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74940,520,'"95% Perfect: The Older Residences at Nantucket" by Everett Uberto Crosby is a detailed analysis and examination of the architectural heritage of Nantucket, written in the late 1930s. This non-fiction publication focuses on the unique style of older houses on the island, emphasizing their historical significance and the effort needed to preserve their integrity. The book serves as both a tribute to Nantucket''s architectural legacy and a guide for preserving its historical residences.  Crosby''s analysis identifies various architectural styles from three main periods, showcasing distinctive features common to Nantucket''s older houses. He provides a census that catalogs architectural characteristics such as foundation types, window designs, and roof styles, drawing connections to the island''s cultural influences, including Quaker simplicity and the impact of prosperity from the whaling industry. Through a combination of illustrations, photographs, and descriptions, the book argues for the importance of maintaining the authenticity of these homes to promote continued appreciation of Nantucket''s unique architectural landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74940,500,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74940,425);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74940,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74941,520,'"Gritny People" by R. Emmet Kennedy is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book presents a vibrant tapestry of life in a southern African American community, focusing on characters who gather at Aunt Susan Smiley''s cook shop. Through their stories, laughter, struggles, and interactions, the narrative explores themes of community, resilience, and cultural identity.  At the start of the story, we are introduced to Aunt Susan Smiley, her renowned gumbo and sweet potato pies, and the lively atmosphere of her cook shop where patrons can tell stories while enjoying her culinary delights. The narrative quickly delves into the intricacies of relationships, particularly focusing on Tom Lakes, a blind man with a complicated marriage to the jealous Bell, and his enduring bond with Aunt Susan. As events unfold, a significant gathering is planned for July 4th, highlighting the community''s spirit, while underlying tensions in the characters’ lives begin to emerge. The opening sets the stage for a rich exploration of various colorful personalities and their interconnected lives within the microcosm of Gritny. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74941,500,'Reading ease score: 79.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74941,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74941,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74942,520,'"Heimweh; The siren; The loaded gun; Liebereich; ''Iupiter Tonans;'' ''Sis;'' Thor''s..." by John Luther Long is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The text begins with a poignant exploration of human relationships, love, and the passage of time, focusing especially on themes of happiness and loss. Notably, one of the stories introduces us to Betsy and John, a couple who, despite a modest existence, find joy in their simple lives and unconditional love for each other.  The opening of the book sets the stage for an emotionally rich narrative, beginning with the lives of John and Betsy as they navigate their humble beginnings together. They are portrayed as a young couple in love, content with their lack of material wealth and focused on their family. As the story progresses, it delves into the challenges and heartaches they face, particularly during the Civil War, when John''s sons go off to fight, leaving Betsy to grapple with the fear of losing her loved ones. Their tale is woven with moments of light-heartedness and profound sorrow, suggesting a narrative that intertwines joyous memories with the sorrow of inevitable loss, laying a foundational emotional landscape for the rest of the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74942,500,'Reading ease score: 84.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74942,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74942,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74943,520,'"Isles of the Sea; or, Young America Homeward Bound" by William T. Adams is a novel written in the late 19th century. This adventurous tale follows young students of the academy squadron, particularly focusing on Thomas Speers, as they embark on a journey through various islands while aiming to return home across the Atlantic. The story portrays themes of learning, ambition, and personal growth against a backdrop of nautical exploration.  At the start of the narrative, the squadron is anchored in Gibraltar Bay, excitedly preparing for their journey home after completing their studies and adventures in the Spanish Peninsula. Amid the anticipation, a significant event occurs when Tom Speers receives a telegraphic message that reveals the death of his wealthy uncle and the potential inheritance awaiting him. However, Speers is torn between this newfound wealth and his desire to prove himself as an officer aboard the Tritonia, showcasing his determination to prioritize his maritime ambitions over financial gain. The excitement builds as the squadron sets sail, hinting at forthcoming challenges and adventures they will face at sea. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74943,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74943,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74943,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74944,520,'"Runoja lapsille 4: Luettaviksi kotona ja koulussa" by Abraham Pietikäinen is a collection of poems intended for children, published in the late 19th century. This book features a variety of poems that exemplify moral teachings, nature, and spirituality, suitable for both home and school settings. Imbued with cultural and religious sentiments, it serves as a tool for children''s education and character development.  The collection includes poems addressing themes such as faith, love for one''s homeland, the beauty of nature, and innocence in childhood. Each poem encourages reflection and evokes emotions through simple yet expressive language. Notable pieces include children''s hymns, prayers, and songs about the seasons, as well as verses that celebrate Finnish culture and heritage. Through these works, Pietikäinen captures not only the essence of childhood but also instills a sense of identity and values that resonate with young readers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74944,500,'Reading ease score: 59.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74944,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74944,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74945,520,'"La morale de Nietzsche" by Pierre Lasserre is a philosophical exposition written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the moral philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche, focusing particularly on his critique of anarchism and the implications of his thoughts on morality and civilization. Lasserre aims to present a sympathetic yet critical interpretation of Nietzsche''s ideas, shedding light on their historical and philosophical significance.  The opening of this work introduces Lasserre''s motivations for revisiting his earlier study on Nietzsche, originally published in 1903, as he reflects on its themes in the context of contemporary philosophical discourse. He establishes the foundation of Nietzsche''s thought, asserting that civilization is defined by the moral conduct it inspires. Emphasizing the necessity of discipline and the cultivation of one''s instincts, Lasserre discusses the inherent conflict within the human spirit and Nietzsche''s perspective on the will to power. The author critiques the prevailing interpretations of Nietzsche as purely nihilistic or anarchistic, proposing instead that Nietzsche''s philosophy embodies a complex understanding of morality that transcends simplistic definitions and addresses deeper existential challenges posed by modernity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74945,500,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74945,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74945,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74946,520,'"En Asie centrale : du Kohistan à la Caspienne" by Gabriel Bonvalot is a travel narrative written in the late 19th century. The work chronicles the author’s explorations and encounters throughout Central Asia, particularly focusing on regions like Samarkand, Djizak, and the Kohistan mountains. Bonvalot aims to provide readers with a vivid portrayal of the landscapes, peoples, and cultures, often eschewing rigorous scientific analysis for a more accessible, anecdotal approach.  At the start of the narrative, Bonvalot reflects on his previous travels and expresses a desire to convey the everyday life of the local populations through his observations. He vividly describes his surroundings in Samarkand, painting a picture of its historical significance while noting its current decay. The text discusses playful scenes with local children, as well as the contrasting lifestyles of the people he encounters. The opening chapters unfold with his preparations for further exploration into the steppes and mountains, introducing companions and guides, while hinting at the challenges he will face due to the harsh environment. The imagery and observations set the stage for a rich adventure filled with natural beauty and cultural encounters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74946,500,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74946,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74946,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74947,520,'"Fairy Tales" by Wilhelm Hauff is a collection of enchanting stories written in the early 19th century. The book showcases imaginative narratives filled with adventure, magic, and moral lessons, often featuring characters from various walks of life, including royalty, magical beings, and clever commoners. Central to these tales are whimsical plots that invite the reader into a world of fantastical possibilities.  The opening of "Fairy Tales" introduces readers to the story of "The Story of Caliph Stork," beginning with Caliph Chasid of Bagdad, who relishes a peaceful afternoon until an intriguing encounter with a mysterious pedlar leads him to a magical powder that grants the ability to transform into any animal. Filled with excitement, the Caliph and his vizier, Mansor, decide to become storks to eavesdrop on the conversations of nature. However, in their exuberance, they laugh and forget the spell that would return them to their human forms, casting them into a comedic and transformative adventure filled with unforeseen challenges. This sets the tone for a rich blend of humor, magic, and adventure that characterizes the stories that follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74947,500,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74947,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74947,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74948,520,'"A New System of Chemical Philosophy, Volume 2, Part 1" by John Dalton is a scientific publication written in the early 19th century. This work marks Dalton''s significant contribution to the field of chemistry, where he explores the nature of chemical compounds, particularly focusing on metallic oxides and the relationship between metals and oxygen. The text embodies foundational hypotheses in atomic theory and chemical reaction principles that emerged during this formative period in scientific inquiry.  The opening of this volume begins with a preface that outlines the lengthy process of its publication, starting from 1817 to its completion in 1827. Dalton discusses his methods for investigating compounds such as oxides, detailing specific experiments and techniques for determining the proportions of elements within these compounds. He emphasizes the challenges faced in accurately identifying the weights and relationships of metals and oxygen, employing a methodical approach to provide a clearer understanding of chemical interactions. Dalton''s meticulous reporting of experiments reflects a dedication to empirical observation, making this work a crucial reference for scholars seeking to comprehend early chemical principles and atomic structure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74948,500,'Reading ease score: 59.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74948,475);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74949,520,'"Helen of Troy; and Rose" by Phyllis Bottome is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story appears to explore complex themes of relationships, loss, and the impact of the past on the present, focusing on the main character, Horace Lestrange, who grapples with the memory of his deceased wife as he contemplates marriage to another woman, Edith Walton. The narrative delves into the emotional turmoil of Horace and his family dynamics, highlighting the tension between new beginnings and lingering grief.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Horace Lestrange, who is engaged in a seemingly simple pastime of skipping stones but is deeply preoccupied with his emotional landscape following the death of his wife and the subsequent responsibilities of fatherhood. As he considers marriage to Edith, we learn of his son, Leslie, and the challenges that come with integrating a new woman into their lives after his earlier loss. The tension heightens as Horace''s sister, Miss Lestrange, raises concerns about Edith''s suitability as a stepmother, which complicates Horace''s decisions further. The narrative sets up promises of familial conflict and emotional complexity as relationships evolve and intertwine amidst the backdrop of grief and love. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74949,500,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74949,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74949,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74950,520,'"Le père Huc et ses critiques" by Prince Henri d''Orléans is a scholarly examination written in the late 19th century. The book centers on the travels of the French missionary Père Huc in Asia, particularly Tibet, and the subsequent critiques that arose regarding the accuracy and validity of his accounts. It seeks to establish the authenticity of Huc''s experiences and defend his observations against detractors who have labeled them as fanciful or exaggerated.  The opening of the text introduces the reader to the journey undertaken by Père Huc and his companion, the Père Gabet, who set out in 1844 to study the beliefs of the peoples of high Asia. Despite facing numerous challenges, they reached Lhasa, only to be forced to leave shortly after due to suspicions from local authorities. Henri d''Orléans outlines the initial reception of Huc''s travel writings, noting that they garnered little respect from intellectual circles yet captivated the public imagination. He confronts critiques made by subsequent travelers, particularly by General Prjevalsky, arguing that Huc''s insights and experiences, far from being mere fabrications, provide valuable testimony about a poorly understood region of the world. The text invites the reader to adopt an impartial stance in evaluating Huc''s narrative, setting the stage for a deeper analysis of his experiences and the criticisms he faced. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74950,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74950,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74950,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74951,520,'"Talon-Pojan Sää- eli Ilma-Kirja" by Anonymous is a practical guidebook on weather forecasting written during the late 18th century. This historical publication shares knowledge on how to predict weather patterns and seasonal changes throughout the year, emphasizing the wisdom gathered from ancient observations and traditions. It provides insight into the natural signs that indicate forthcoming weather conditions, merging folklore with practical advice.  The content of the book is structured around various weather predictions related to specific dates, particularly around Christmas and how the conditions on those days can forecast the weather for the upcoming year. Each month is discussed in detail, outlining the expected climate conditions and agricultural outcomes based on atmospheric signs and observations, such as the behavior of animals and changes in nature. The guide interweaves a blend of scientific inquiry and anecdotal reporting, aimed at farmers and those interested in understanding the natural world to better prepare for the seasons. Overall, this work serves as an important reflection of the time''s agricultural practices and weather beliefs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74951,500,'Reading ease score: 43.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74951,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74951,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74952,520,'"Valkea huvila : Novelli" by Maila Talvio is a novella written in the early 20th century. This poignant story delves into the aftermath of a tragic train accident that profoundly affects its victims and their families, particularly focusing on the characters of Maria and her daughter Saima. The narrative unfolds a tapestry of grief, societal criticism, and hope against the backdrop of a changing world, woven into the lives of its characters as they navigate through pain and loss.  At the start of the novella, a devastating train accident is recounted, marking a beautiful spring evening turned tragic. The accident leaves behind a scene of horror, claiming the life of Maria and injuring her daughter, Saima. Amidst the chaos, the old switchman, Ukko Trast, tries to save the injured girl, who is on the brink of death. As the community rallies together, various characters reflect on the harsh realities of life and death, societal injustice, and the weight of helplessness in the face of tragedy. The opening sets a vivid, somber tone that invites readers to witness the profound emotional turmoil of the characters while hinting at the resilience of the human spirit in adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74952,500,'Reading ease score: 54.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74952,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74952,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74953,520,'"The Radio Ghost" by Otis Adelbert Kline is a thrilling scientific fiction novel written during the early 20th century. The book explores the intriguing intersection of radio technology and the supernatural, as it delves into the themes of psychic phenomena, ghostly apparitions, and a mysterious inheritance. Through its imaginative narrative, the story educates readers on actual radio principles while crafting a gripping tale of suspense and mystery.  The plot centers around a young woman named Greta Van Loan, who, after the death of her uncle, grapples with eerie disturbances in his Highland Park home. She enlists the help of Dr. Dorp and his colleague, Mr. Evans, as they investigate strange occurrences, including ghostly manifestations and inexplicable phenomena such as moving objects and icy breezes. As the investigation unfolds, they uncover a nefarious plot orchestrated by her cousin, Ernest Hegel, who uses advanced radio technology to manipulate the environment and create the illusion of ghostly hauntings. The novel culminates in a dramatic confrontation that unravels the mystery and reveals the truth behind the haunting—a tale that intertwines science and the supernatural in a captivating narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74953,500,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74953,480);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74953,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74954,520,'"Christmas at the Hall: The Hero''s Grave; Night Musings, and Other Poems" by T. J. Terrington is a poetic collection likely written in the mid-19th century. The book primarily explores themes of love, community, and the essence of happiness found in familial bonds, particularly during the Christmas season. It seems to center around the life and reflections of Sir Arthur, a character characterized by his benevolence and commitment to cultivating a nurturing environment within his antique hall.  At the start of this collection, the reader is introduced to a gloomy landscape that reflects the melancholic aspects of life, contrasting with the warmth and joy associated with Christmas. The narrative delves into the life of Sir Arthur, highlighting his role as a compassionate leader in his village, establishing a sense of community and goodwill among the villagers. The opening sets the stage for various poems that commemorate Christmas, love, and social harmony, all of which suggest that amid sorrow and loss, there exists the potential for joy through kindness and familial connections. The excerpt hints at forthcoming poems that will likely explore the celebrations of the season and the importance of genuine relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74954,500,'Reading ease score: 70.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74954,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74954,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74955,520,'"History of the Franks" by Gregory Bishop of Tours is a historical account written in the early 6th century. This work chronicles the history of the Frankish people, detailing the socio-political landscape during the decline of the Roman Empire and the rise of early medieval kingdoms in Gaul. The narrative intertwines religious themes, recounting the actions of kings, saints, and the church, providing insights into the customs and beliefs of the time.  The opening of "History of the Franks" sets the stage for Gregory''s exploration of the tumultuous period marked by pagan incursions, the conflicts among Christian factions, and the challenges faced by the church. Gregory introduces himself and his motivations, highlighting his religious commitments and the desire to document both remarkable events and the more mundane aspects of life. He emphasizes the importance of understanding the struggles between good and evil, laying a foundation for the history he is about to present. Through a mix of narrative and reflection, Gregory aims to preserve the past for future generations while revealing the complexity of belief systems and the societal transformations occurring in his time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74955,500,'Reading ease score: 74.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74955,447);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74955,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74956,520,'"Margery Daw" by Bertha M. Clay is a novel written in the early 20th century. It revolves around the themes of love, loss, and social class through the experiences of Margery, a young girl whose mother dies tragically in a railroad accident. Margery becomes a focal point for various characters as they navigate their compassion and social responsibilities towards her, revealing the complexities of human emotions in the context of love stories intertwined with action and moral dilemmas.  At the start of the story, a train collision leaves a young mother dead, and her daughter Margery, who miraculously survives, is found and taken into the care of strangers. The opening describes a chaotic scene with doctors and bystanders attempting to assist the injured. Margery''s fate becomes uncertain as her connection to the dead mother is revealed, and various characters express their concern for her well-being. A kind lady, Mrs. Graham, takes immediate responsibility for Margery, while others discuss the dead woman’s background, hinting at unresolved mysteries pertaining to Margery''s origins and her mother’s past. The narrative establishes a poignant backdrop that sets the stage for Margery''s journey, illustrating the contrasting lives of the characters surrounding her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74956,500,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74956,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74957,520,'"Indian Sketches, Taken During an Expedition to the Pawnee Tribes (Vol. 2 of 2)" by John T. Irving, Jr. is a historical account written in the early 19th century. This work chronicles the experiences and observations of the author during his expedition among the Pawnee tribes, detailing their customs, social interactions, and the environment of the American frontier. Through vivid descriptions and engaging narratives, the book delves into the cultural richness and the complex dynamics of life among Native Americans.  The opening of the narrative sets the scene with the author''s arrival at the Pawnee village, detailing the preparations and the warm yet intense welcome by the Pawnee warriors. As the party approaches the village, the contrasting descriptions of their preparations, from the soldiers to the adorned Otoe Indians, create an atmosphere of both anticipation and tension. The arrival culminates in a dramatic reception, where thousands of Pawnee warriors surround the white visitors, merging rituals of welcome with a startling show of fierce loyalty to their people. The detailed portrayal of the reception illustrates both the hospitality and the underlying power of the warriors, setting the stage for the intricate interactions that will unfold throughout the account. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74957,500,'Reading ease score: 74.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74957,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74957,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74958,520,'"When East Met West" by W. C. Tuttle is a complete novelette written in the early 20th century. This humorous work is set in the American West, specifically in the small, quirky town of Piperock, and explores the comical interactions between its eccentric residents. With a blend of satire and adventure, the central theme revolves around local pride, ambition, and the absurd ideas that spring up when the townsfolk seek to improve their image and attract visitors.  The story follows protagonists Ike Harper and Dirty Shirt Jones as they return from a prospecting trip to find that their friend Magpie Simpkins has taken on the role of president of the newly founded Piperock Chamber of Commerce. Magpie''s grand ambitions for the town include acquiring a zoo with exotic animals to draw in crowds and elevate Piperock''s status. However, a series of farcical events unfold, including animal escapes and a chaotic Labor Day celebration that pits Piperock against the neighboring town of Paradise. Ultimately, the narrative showcases the humorous excesses of small-town politics, civic pride, and the ludicrous lengths to which people will go to claim success and recognition. The comedic tone, vivid characters, and outrageous plot make this book an entertaining read for those who enjoy light-hearted Western humor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74958,500,'Reading ease score: 93.0 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74958,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74958,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74959,520,'"Der graue Alltag und sein Licht: Roman" by Felicitas Rose is a fictional novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around the main character, Brigitte Lage, who inherits the responsibilities and intricacies of family legacy and the metaphorical "gray everyday life" after her grand-aunt Jesuliebe''s passing. The narrative unfolds as Brigitte grapples with her feelings towards her new home, the characters surrounding it, and the deeper meanings behind her inheritance.  The opening of the novel introduces Brigitte as she receives the unexpected news of her inheritance, prompting her to reflect on her family''s history and the burdens of the "gray everyday." Her memories of a visit from her great-aunt shape her current feelings about family legacy and duty. Interspersed with her reflections are whimsical encounters and family anecdotes that establish her longing for a deeper connection to her ancestry and her new environment at Haus Lage. As she settles into her new role, she faces initial challenges and strange occurrences that hint at a life intertwined with history, familial ties, and the enchanting mysteries that surround her inheritance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74959,500,'Reading ease score: 82.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74959,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74960,520,'"Maan-Miehen Huone- ja Koti-Aptheeki" by Christfrid Ganander is a collection of home remedies and medicinal recipes written in the late 18th century. This work provides practical advice on various treatments for common ailments that can be prepared at home, utilizing both homemade ingredients and those available from apothecaries. The text reflects the medicinal practices of the time, focusing on easily accessible cures for rural communities in Finland.  The opening of this work outlines its purpose and utility, emphasizing the need for rural inhabitants, isolated from urban apothecaries, to be able to treat minor illnesses themselves. It introduces the reader to the notion that while many remedies exist, this book specifically aims to simplify their inventory by detailing only the most essential and commonly needed medications. The initial recipes presented include tinctures and ointments made from local herbs and natural ingredients, demonstrating both the author''s intent to empower individuals with useful knowledge and the practical applications of folk medicine in everyday life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74960,500,'Reading ease score: 48.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74960,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74960,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74961,520,'"Runo-Kirja: Jumalan kunniaksi!" by Christfrid Ganander is a collection of religious poetry likely written in the late 18th century. This work draws from biblical texts and traditional Finnish verse to create a musical homage to God, encapsulating spirituality within the cultural context of Finnish traditions. The book provides a fascinating glimpse into the fusion of religious content and the acoustic qualities of Finnish folk poetry.   The collection includes various psalms, excerpts from the Book of Job, and poems celebrating the beauty of nature and love. Each poem is crafted to be sung or recited, inviting readers to engage with the text musically as well as intellectually. Themes of divine love, the human experience, and reflections on mortality permeate the verses, offering both comfort and contemplation. The work emphasizes the importance of communal singing and spiritual expression, echoing the deep-rooted cultural practices of the Finnish people. Through its lyrical construction, Ganander seeks to honor God while also preserving the poetic traditions of his homeland. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74961,500,'Reading ease score: 34.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74961,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74961,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74962,520,'"Les missionnaires français au Thibet" by Prince Henri d''Orléans is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This book explores the efforts of French missionaries in Tibet, providing insight into their spiritual and civilizing missions amidst the challenges posed by local inhabitants and the geopolitical interests of foreign powers. The author examines the significant contributions of these missionaries to the region, highlighting their role in education, healthcare, and the propagation of their faith.  The narrative details the arduous journeys and profound challenges faced by French missionaries as they sought to establish a presence in Tibet. Highlighting individual figures such as the P. Renou and their encounters with both the local population and Chinese authorities, the book chronicles various missions, detailing their achievements and the obstacles that led to persecution and violence. Through vivid descriptions, the author captures the cultural and religious dynamics at play, offering readers a glimpse into the harsh realities of missionary work in an isolated and complex region. Overall, it is a testament to the resolve and dedication of these individuals as they endeavored to bridge cultures and spread their beliefs in the face of adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74962,500,'Reading ease score: 54.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74962,448);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74962,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74963,520,'"Der Flieger" by Rudolf Hans Bartsch is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows Tikosch Gabor, a daring pilot embroiled in a dangerous aerial mission over enemy territory during a time of war. As he navigates through the treacherous skies, he encounters various challenges both in the air and on the ground, ultimately leading to a struggle for survival in hostile lands.  The opening of the novel introduces Tikosch Gabor as he is engaged in a high-stakes flight over Serbian territory, where he drops bombs on military targets while avoiding enemy fire. His exhilaration soon turns to peril when he is shot and must crash-land in a dense forest. Stranded and injured, he grapples with both his physical wounds and the looming threat of discovery by local forces hunting for him. In a desperate bid for survival, Tikosch attempts to hide his presence while also seeking sustenance, reflecting the intense psychological and physical challenges he faces in a foreign wilderness. The chapter lays the groundwork for his journey, emphasizing themes of bravery, isolation, and the instinct to survive against overwhelming odds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74963,500,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74963,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74963,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74964,520,'"The Cambridge Natural History, Vol. 09 (of 10)" by A. H. Evans is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This volume specifically focuses on the topic of birds, offering detailed descriptions of various species and their classifications. It aims to provide a comprehensive resource for both novices and those traveling or residing in foreign lands who seek knowledge about the avian species they may encounter.  The opening of the book features a preface that outlines its purpose and the approach taken by the author. It discusses the necessity for a detailed yet accessible description of birds, combining scientific rigor with practical information. The author highlights the importance of avoiding overly complex taxonomic variations while providing brief summaries of each family and typical species within the extensive Passerine order. Following this, the introductory chapter sets the stage by defining what constitutes a bird and emphasizes a variety of structural aspects, from feathers and colors to skeletal anatomy, providing the foundational knowledge necessary for understanding the subsequent, more detailed classifications. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74964,500,'Reading ease score: 60.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74964,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74964,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74965,520,'"Päivä Veronassa ja viikko Venetsiassa" by Hilda Maria Käkikoski is a travel memoir written in the early 20th century. This narrative recounts the author''s experiences during her journey in Italy, particularly highlighting the beauty and history of Verona and Venice as she interacts with both the landscapes and the people. The memoir reflects on cultural observations and first impressions that reveal the allure and complexity of these iconic Italian cities.  The opening of the memoir introduces Käkikoski''s excitement as she travels through the Alps towards Italy, showcasing her initial encounters with the breathtaking scenery and the charm of the Alpine villages. The narrative captures her astonishment as she realizes the contrasts between her expectations and the realities of travel, particularly as she arrives in Verona. Through her journey, she faces language barriers and cultural misunderstandings that add to her adventure, while also feeling a sense of wonder about the historical depth of the places she visits. With a keen eye for detail, Käkikoski sets the stage for her exploration of Italy’s rich artistic heritage, marked by significant landmarks and local life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74965,500,'Reading ease score: 31.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74965,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74965,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74966,520,'"Rigby''s Reliable Candy Teacher and Soda and Ice Cream Formulas" by W. O. Rigby is a practical guide to candy making and soda fountain recipes written in the early 20th century. The book offers over 500 recipes for various confections, soft drinks, and ice creams, making it an invaluable resource for aspiring candy makers and shop owners. Its focus on clear instructions and business tips indicates that it targets both novice and experienced confectioners looking to enhance their skills and broaden their product offerings.  The opening of the book serves as an introduction to the author''s two decades of experience in the candy-making business. Rigby emphasizes the importance of cleanliness and efficiency in a candy shop while providing practical advice on effective shop management. He shares insights into creating engaging window displays to attract customers and discusses the training of employees to ensure high standards. Overall, the beginning chapters set the stage for detailed recipes and instructions that follow, aiming to empower readers to confidently embark on or improve their candy-making endeavors. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74966,500,'Reading ease score: 74.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74966,431);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74966,428);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74967,520,'"Poems of Life" by Ella Wheeler Wilcox is a collection of poetry written during the late 19th century. The work delves into the themes of love, nature, human experience, and the passage of time, expressing the joy and sorrows of life through vivid imagery and lyrical exploration. Targeted towards readers who appreciate reflective and emotional poetry, this collection captures the essence of life''s beauty and its challenges.  The collection features a variety of poems that explore the emotional spectrum of human existence, from the joy found in love and nature to the inevitable pain of loss and the search for meaning. Notable pieces like "Life," "A Song of Life," and "Gethsemane" illustrate Wilcox''s ability to engage deeply with her feelings and observations, weaving together rich metaphors and evocative language. Throughout the poems, there are reflections on the transient nature of beauty, the pursuit of happiness, and the importance of inner strength and resilience. Wilcox invites readers to journey through the complexities of existence, making "Poems of Life" a poignant and thought-provoking read for anyone contemplating the highs and lows of life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74967,500,'Reading ease score: 82.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74967,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74968,520,'"Poems of Love" by Ella Wheeler Wilcox is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. This book features a rich array of verses that delve into the emotions and complexities of love, exploring themes of passion, loss, longing, and the different facets of romantic relationships. Wilcox''s work is known for its lyrical quality and heartfelt expression, making it accessible to readers who enjoy poetry that resonates with personal experience.  The collection includes a variety of poems that each capture unique moments and sentiments associated with love. Throughout the verses, Wilcox addresses the joys and sorrows of love, from the tender emotions felt during blossoming romance to the deep pain of separation. In "Sweet Danger," the poet contemplates the perils that accompany love''s passion, while in "Love Will Wane," she unflinchingly acknowledges the inevitability of fading affections. Other poems, such as "A Maiden''s Secret" and "The Kingdom of Love," evoke the innocence and hopefulness that often accompany young love. Overall, the anthology reveals Wilcox''s deep understanding of love as a powerful force that can elevate and devastate, reflecting both the beauty and heartache that comes with it. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74968,500,'Reading ease score: 82.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74968,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74968,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74969,520,'"Marionettes, Masks and Shadows" by Winifred H. Mills and Louise M. Dunn is a comprehensive guide on the art of puppetry, likely written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the history, craftsmanship, and theatrical practices surrounding marionettes, masks, and shadow plays, with detailed instructions for creating and presenting these art forms. The book aims to excite and educate readers about the traditions and techniques of puppetry, appealing to both enthusiasts and newcomers interested in this engaging craft.  The opening of the book provides a rich historical overview of the marionette, tracing its roots through various cultures, including Egypt, India, China, and Greece. It discusses the various forms and significance of puppetry in ancient rituals, entertainment, and storytelling. The authors vividly illustrate the evolution of puppets, referencing ancient legends and practices, leading the reader through a journey that highlights the craftsmanship and cultural importance of these artistic expressions. This context sets the foundation for the practical guidance that follows in the chapters ahead, fostering a deeper appreciation for the art of puppetry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74969,500,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74969,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74969,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74970,520,'"Kerjäläisteinit" by Kálmán Mikszáth is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around two orphaned boys, Pista and László, who find themselves taken in by a kind-hearted woman named Dobos as they navigate their difficult lives as beggar boys. This tale captures their adventures and struggles, reflecting broader themes of social class, ambition, and the quest for identity in a richly detailed historical setting.  The opening of the novel introduces the lively world of Dobos’s household in Debreczen, where tein (students) live under her care. It describes the humorous dynamics between Dobos, her husband, and their boarders, particularly emphasizing Dobos’s tough yet maternal nature. The author portrays the boys'' early lives, highlighting their sorrow and aspirations, particularly Pista’s yearning for nobility and status. A heartfelt encounter leads to Dobos taking the brothers in, transforming their lives as they come to terms with their pasts while dreaming of a brighter future amidst their new environment. The narrative sets the stage for their adventures and the challenges they will face in a society divided by class and wealth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74970,500,'Reading ease score: 43.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74970,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74970,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74971,520,'"A-B-C of Motion Pictures" by Robert E. Welsh is a comprehensive guide that offers an overview of the motion picture industry written in the early 20th century. The text covers the history, principles, and practical aspects involved in creating motion pictures, targeting both enthusiasts and laypeople unfamiliar with the intricacies of film production. This initial portion establishes the significance of cinema as both entertainment and an educational tool, exploring its rapid rise in popularity within just a couple of decades.  The opening of the work begins with a foreword highlighting the importance of understanding the evolution of motion pictures and the art of filmmaking. It delves into early experiments with moving images, from the zoetrope to Edison''s kinetoscope, illustrating how various inventors built on one another''s work. Welsh aims to demystify the production process for readers by answering common questions related to filmmaking, presenting a logical framework for understanding the technical and historical contexts that shape the film industry today. Using clear terminology, the book promises insights into the artistic and mechanical processes behind motion pictures, making it an accessible resource for both industry insiders and casual readers interested in the evolution of film. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74971,500,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74971,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74971,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74972,520,'"The Book of Garden Design" by Charles Thonger is a practical guide on garden design written in the early 20th century. This work offers insights into various principles and styles of garden making, emphasizing a harmonious balance between natural beauty and human creativity. Thonger aims to instruct novice gardeners on how to cultivate their own ideas and tastes rather than merely replicating established patterns or using rigid designs.  The opening of the book introduces the complexity of garden design as a discipline that blends both art and practicality. Thonger argues that to become a successful garden designer, one must engage with nature, understanding the diverse elements that shape natural landscapes. In the initial chapters, he critiques the rigid approaches of previous designers and advocates for a more organic and personalized style, urging readers to learn from nature instead of relying solely on formal plans. He emphasizes the importance of comfort, convenience, and aesthetic harmony, setting the stage for a comprehensive exploration of garden design practices. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74972,500,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74972,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74973,520,'"Lives of the Early Medici: As Told in Their Correspondence" by Janet Ross is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work explores the private lives of the Medici family, one of the most influential dynasties in Renaissance Italy, focusing on their personal letters and correspondence. The book aims to reveal the everyday lives, relationships, and challenges faced by the Medici, showcasing their transition from a middle-class family to a ruling house entwined with European politics and culture.  At the start of this volume, the introduction lays the groundwork for understanding the significance of the Medici family by highlighting the lack of focus on their private lives in previous biographies. The text emphasizes the importance of letters in providing an authentic view of historical figures, as they convey unfiltered emotions and personal anecdotes. Ross incorporates excerpts from letters written by various members of the Medici, such as Contessina and Cosimo de’ Medici, reflecting on family matters, daily concerns, and broader political dynamics of the time. This initial portion effectively sets up the expectation of delving into both the public and private dimensions of the Medici legacy through their correspondence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74973,500,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74973,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74973,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74974,520,'"Spirit-of-Iron (Manitou-pewabic)" by Harwood Steele is a novel written in the early 20th century. This authentic narrative presents the development of North-Western Canada during its formative pioneer period, focusing on the experiences and ideals of Constable Hector Adair, the main character, who embodies the spirit and duty of the North-West Mounted Police. The story captures his journey, struggles, and the values that shape both him and the law enforcement force he represents.  The opening of "Spirit-of-Iron" introduces us to Hector Adair, a young recruit in the North-West Mounted Police, as he prepares to depart from Lower Fort Garry. We learn about his sturdy upbringing in Upper Canada, heavily influenced by military traditions, and his aspirations to serve the Queen. The narrative takes us through Hector’s formative years, including his early military ambitions, the devastating loss of his sister, and the subsequent challenges that lead him to accept his role as a mounted constable. As he embarks on this significant journey, he forges connections with fellow officers and begins to understand the gravity of his responsibilities amidst the untamed wilderness and burgeoning settlements. This portion sets the stage for his development, highlighting the conflicts between duty, personal ambition, and the complexities of the society he is destined to serve. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74974,500,'Reading ease score: 84.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74974,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74974,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74975,520,'"The Boys of the ''Puffin'': A Sea Scout Yarn" by Percy F. Westerman is a children''s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a group of Sea Scouts and their deputy Scoutmaster, Peter Craddock, as they navigate various challenges involving sailing, camaraderie, and a mysterious smuggling plot. The boys exhibit resourcefulness and bravery, setting the stage for exciting interactions on the seas.  The opening of the book introduces Peter Craddock, who is described as a Sea Scout engaged in fishing at Aberstour. He interacts with a stranger who inquires about the local scoutmaster, Theodore Grant, not knowing that he is connected to a smuggling operation. The chapter sets the tone for an adventurous narrative as the Scouts prepare for their time on the yacht, the "Puffin". The frustration caused by their scoutmaster''s absence leads to tension that hints at upcoming adventures, with Craddock’s keen observations foreshadowing the unfolding plot regarding the “assistant” Scoutmaster. The atmosphere combines a sense of youthful exploration with the intrigue of a potential criminal scheme, ensuring readers'' interest in how both elements will develop throughout the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74975,500,'Reading ease score: 84.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74975,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74975,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74976,520,'"Travels in the Interior Districts of Africa" by Mungo Park is a historical account written in the late 18th century. The narrative chronicles Park''s ambitious journey through the largely unexplored regions of Africa, focusing on his experiences and observations as he navigates the complexities of the continent''s geography and cultures. Through his travels, readers can expect to gain insights into the indigenous populations, their customs, and the challenges he faced along the way.  At the start of the journey, Mungo Park introduces his motivations for exploring Africa after learning about previous expeditions’ challenges, including the fate of Captain Houghton. He recounts his preparations and arrival in Gambia, where he encounters local traders and learns about the region''s customs. As Park sets out on his exploration, he details his interactions with various peoples, landscapes, and the significant economic activities at play, including trade in goods such as cotton and bees-wax. The opening chapters establish his initial encounters with new cultures and set the stage for the trials and rich experiences that continue throughout his journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74976,500,'Reading ease score: 60.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74976,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74976,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74977,520,'"La taverna intel·lectual: (De les meves memòries)" by Pompeyo Gener is a memoir written in the early 20th century. This book provides a fascinating glimpse into the intellectual life of Barcelona through the eyes of the author as he recounts his experiences in a vibrant tavern setting. The text highlights the cultural and social interactions that took place in "La Malvasía," the bodega-restaurant owned by Joan Ventura, where a diverse group of artists, writers, and intellectuals gathered.  In the memoir, Gener vividly describes the eclectic clientele of the tavern, presenting a variety of characters such as poets, journalists, and musicians who frequented the establishment. He shares anecdotes about lively discussions that included topics ranging from politics to artistic expression and the often humorous interactions among patrons. The tavern serves as a microcosm of the broader social changes occurring in society, reflecting the complexities of human nature, creativity, and camaraderie while showcasing Joan Ventura''s generosity and his passion for literature. Ultimately, the narrative weaves together personal recollections with cultural commentary, making it a compelling read for those interested in literary history and the bohemian lifestyle of the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74977,500,'Reading ease score: 65.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74977,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74977,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74978,520,'"The Botanist''s Repository for New and Rare Plants; Vol. 09" by H. Andrews is a scientific publication written in the early 19th century. This volume is part of a larger series dedicated to cataloging and illustrating new and rare plant species, accompanied by detailed botanical descriptions in both Latin and English, following the Linnaean classification system. The work serves as a valuable reference for botanists, horticulturists, and plant enthusiasts looking to discover and understand unique plant specimens from around the world.  At the start of this volume, Andrews begins by presenting several newly identified species, including the Assurgent Lobelia and Narrow-leaved Volkameria, each described with precise botanical terminology. The opening portion includes detailed illustrations and classifications that highlight the specific characteristics and growing conditions of these plants, emphasizing their rarity and ornamental value. As the text unfolds, it delves into the historical context of each species, discussing their origins and cultivation, particularly in botanic gardens, offering insight into the ongoing exploration and classification of the plant kingdom during this period. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74978,500,'Reading ease score: 66.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74978,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74978,479);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74979,520,'"The Journal of the American Irish Historical Society, Vol. IX, 1910" by Various is a historical publication written in the early 20th century. This volume features proceedings from the Annual Meeting of 1910, alongside essays and articles contributed by members focused on the contributions of the Irish community to American history. The journal aims to highlight and document the significant role that Irish-Americans played in shaping the culture and history of the United States.  At the start of this volume, Thomas Zanslaur Lee, the Secretary General, introduces the purpose of the journal, which is to convey the year''s achievements of the society, including new member admissions and various scholarly contributions. The opening also provides an overview of the organizational structure of the society, detailing its officers and members. Importantly, it outlines the Society''s commitment to ensuring that the Irish narrative in America is recognized and accurately recorded, as well as its ongoing efforts to foster a spirit of patriotism and unity among various Irish descents within the United States. The volume seeks to serve as a resource for historians and interested public alike, showcasing the ongoing research and historical work conducted by the Society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74979,500,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74979,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74979,455);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74980,520,'"The Best Stories of Sarah Orne Jewett, Volume 2 (of 2)" by Sarah Orne Jewett is a collection of short stories published in the early 20th century. This volume brings together various narratives that capture the essence of New England life, focusing on themes of nature, community, and the human experience. The opening features characters navigating their environments—particularly a young girl named Sylvia, who interacts with her beloved cow and experiences the gentle challenges of rural life.  At the start of the volume, the scene is set in the tranquil woods at dusk, where a little girl named Sylvia is tasked with bringing home her cow. Her playful relationship with the cow highlights her innocent fascination with nature and her surroundings, which is juxtaposed against her occasional fears and the quiet drama of her childhood. Sylvia encounters a young man with a gun, who, upon asking for directions, becomes a pivotal figure in her day. As they spend time together, it becomes evident that their paths may intertwine in significant ways, all while Sylvia remains troubled by her loyalties to nature and her growing, yet innocent, feelings for the young man. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74980,500,'Reading ease score: 77.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74980,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74980,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74981,520,'"Pedro Sánchez" by José María de Pereda is a novel written in the late 19th century. The narrative introduces the protagonist, Pedro, who reflects on his life growing up in a small, impoverished town, detailing the simple yet intricate dynamics of family, social class, and aspirations. The novel likely explores themes of ambition, class struggles, and the contrast between rural life and the encroaching influence of urbanization.  At the start of the story, the narrator describes his humble upbringing, with a focus on his family''s modest estate and the character of their neighbors, particularly the Garcías, who represent a more prosperous class. Pedro, the youngest of four siblings, feels the weight of familial expectations to uphold the Sánchez name amidst their financial struggles. The early chapters depict his education under a local priest, budding interest in literature, and contrasting attempts to break free from the confines of his rural existence, hinting at deeper ambitions for his future as he navigates the expectations placed upon him by his family and society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74981,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pedro_S%C3%A1nchez_(novela)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74981,500,'Reading ease score: 52.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74981,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74981,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74982,520,'"Civil Service Jingles and Other Things" by "Harry McDonald Walters" is a collection of humorous poetic sketches and satirical anecdotes written in the early 20th century. This work explores the everyday experiences, perceptions, and comical aspects of life in the civil service, embodying both wit and a critical perspective on bureaucracy. The opening hints at the author''s sharp commentary on the civil service''s structures and characters, likely presenting various figures that typify the profession.  At the start of the collection, readers are introduced to a variety of quirky narratives through playful rhymes and anecdotes. One poem, “The Song of the Extra Clerk,” reflects on the unseen contributions of temporary clerks in a humorous light, emphasizing their lack of recognition compared to their permanent counterparts. In another piece, “The Parable of Gastonio,” a tale unfolds about a clever character trying to navigate the pitfalls of corruption and bureaucracy with resourcefulness and cunning. The opening portion establishes a tone that is both entertaining and insightful, drawing readers into a world where the intricacies of civil service become a source of both amusement and reflection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74982,500,'Reading ease score: 74.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74982,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74982,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74983,520,'"Pyhäsaaren arvoitus: Salapoliisiromaani" by Lauri Soini is a detective novel likely written in the early 20th century. This story unfolds in the aftermath of a mysterious fire on Pyhäsaari Island, intertwining elements of mystery and the investigation led by the protagonist, a private investigator named Haukka. As he delves into the incident, readers can expect a compelling journey filled with suspense and local intrigue.  At the start, the narrative introduces us to the character who wakes up to the arrival of a newspaper containing startling news about a destructive fire on Pyhäsaari Island. The protagonist is quickly swept into action when his friend Haukka, a keen investigator, invites him to accompany him to the scene. As they travel, they hear local legends and rumors surrounding the fire, hinting at a deeper mystery involving a potential arsonist. Characters are introduced, including Haukka''s loyal dog, Silmä, who plays a crucial role in the unfolding investigation. The initial chapters set the stage for a captivating mystery that combines personal dynamics with the broader social and historical context of the island''s past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74983,500,'Reading ease score: 45.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74983,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74983,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74984,520,'"Wild Life Under the Equator: Narrated for Young People" by Paul B. Du Chaillu is a collection of engaging narratives dedicated to young readers, written in the late 19th century. The book introduces children to the wonders of Equatorial Africa through the lens of exploration and adventure, as the author recounts his firsthand experiences in the region. Readers can expect to encounter a variety of wildlife, including gorillas, leopards, and parrots, along with fascinating insights into the culture of the indigenous tribes.  The opening of the book sets the stage for an adventurous narrative, drawing young readers into the vibrant world of Equatorial Africa. Du Chaillu begins with a friendly greeting and shares his excitement to lead them into the forests he has explored, promising thrilling encounters with wild animals and intriguing local customs. The vivid descriptions of his journey—from dealing with heat and hunger to witnessing the habits of parrots—paint a picture of a lush and captivating environment. Additionally, Du Chaillu introduces a whimsical flair, mentioning amusing interactions with local tribes, which adds a layer of charm to his storytelling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74984,500,'Reading ease score: 77.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74984,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74984,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74985,520,'"Maankiertäjiä" by Knut Hamsun is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story centers around the lives of two traveling musicians who arrive in a small, impoverished village during a cold winter, drawing the attention of the local residents with their performances. As they interact with the villagers, themes of struggle, aspiration, and human connection emerge against the backdrop of the harsh rural landscape.  The opening of the book introduces the scene where these musicians, one partially blind and the other carrying a musical instrument, begin to play in the center of the village. The villagers, intrigued and captivated by the music, gather around, breaking the monotony of their bleak winter lives. Tensions arise when one musician''s companion behaves aggressively, prompting a confrontation that stirs up emotions within the crowd. Among them is Edevart, a young boy who intervenes heroically, demonstrating his bravery, which leads to significant character development and themes of youthful defiance and camaraderie. The beginning sets the tone for a narrative rich in exploration of individuality, harsh realities, and the human capacity for compassion amidst adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74985,500,'Reading ease score: 51.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74985,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74985,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74986,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 75, No. 463, May, 1854" by Various is a periodical publication from the mid-19th century. This edition appears to be a rich compilation of essays, articles, and perhaps even some creative works dealing with various topics ranging from political reforms to cultural commentary. The magazine reflects the intellectual preoccupations and societal issues of the time, particularly the discussions surrounding university reforms and their implications in England.  At the start of this volume, the opening article discusses the Oxford Reform Bill, highlighting its contentious nature and the apathy surrounding it among the public and parliamentary representatives. The author examines the dynamics of the bill’s reception, detailing the conflicting views of its proponents and opponents. The commentary provides insights into the inner workings of the University of Oxford at that time, revealing a landscape marked by a struggle between the desire for reform and the deeply-entrenched traditions of academia. Overall, the beginning sets the tone for a thoughtful exploration of the themes central to 19th-century British society, blending politics, education, and social commentary. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74986,500,'Reading ease score: 59.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74986,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74986,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74987,520,'"Waikna: or, Adventures on the Mosquito Shore" by Samuel A. Bard is a narrative travelogue likely written in the mid-19th century. The book recounts the author''s thrilling and perilous experiences along the Mosquito Coast of Central America, involving shipwrecks, encounters with local cultures, and the struggle for survival in a lush yet perilous tropical environment. The protagonist, presumably an artist, embarks on a journey filled with diverse characters, from fearless sailors to indigenous peoples, providing a vivid illustration of the challenges and marvels of exploration in this exotic locale.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage with the author''s reflections on his artistic aspirations amid the cholera-infested Kingston, Jamaica, leading to a decision to travel to the Mosquito Shore. He describes his shipwreck experience, highlighting his sense of exhilaration at being shipwrecked and the dramatic transition to life as a castaway. As he acclimatizes to his surroundings, he encounters Antonio and other quirky characters that flesh out the dramatic and often humorous tone of the tale. The text hints at the adventures to come, from the treacherous waters to interactions with both the native peoples and the remnants of colonial exploits, making it an enticing read for explorers and history enthusiasts alike. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74987,500,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74987,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74987,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74988,520,'"The Tunnel Thru the Air: or, Looking Back from 1940" by William D. Gann is a novel written in the late 1920s. This work intertwines elements of romance, spirituality, and speculation about the future, specifically focusing on the life and aspirations of its protagonist, Robert Gordon. The narrative delves into themes of scientific innovation, adherence to biblical principles, and the impact of personal faith on one’s destiny, positioning Robert as a character whose journey is guided by these elements.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Robert Gordon’s early life in Texas, following his birth to Amelia and Calvin Gordon. Amidst a backdrop of personal and national tragedy, including the loss of his brother and the family''s struggles after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, Robert''s mother nurtures his education and character, instilling in him a passion for learning and a desire to serve God. As he grows, Robert grapples with complex concepts about love, morality, and future aspirations; he dreams of becoming a great inventor and a peacemaker, while his interactions with his mother and community reflect a strong connection to Christian teachings. The beginning of the novel sets the stage for Robert''s ambitions while hinting at the prophetic knowledge he believes is contained within the Bible, foreshadowing his quest for understanding and purpose in a rapidly changing world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74988,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tunnel_Thru_the_Air;_Or,_Looking_Back_from_1940',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74988,500,'Reading ease score: 74.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74988,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74988,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74989,520,'"BILL PORTER: A Drama of O. Henry in Prison" by Upton Sinclair is a play written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around the life of the famed short story writer, O. Henry, whose real name was William Sydney Porter, focusing particularly on his experiences while incarcerated at the Ohio State Penitentiary for embezzlement. The play explores themes of creativity in confinement, showcasing how Porter navigates his troubled past and seeks redemption through storytelling.  The opening of the play introduces us to the cramped environment of the prison hospital, where Bill Porter works as a night drug clerk. Here, we see his interactions with fellow inmates, revealing the harsh realities and shared misery of prison life. Porter converses with Joe, a trusty, revealing not just the emotional weight of their sentences but also Porter''s aspirations of writing stories inspired by his past experiences. As Porter reflects on his daughter, Margaret, and his deceased wife, Athol, we get a glimpse into his inner turmoil and longing for a better life, setting the stage for his character development throughout the narrative. The introductory scenes lay a solid foundation for an exploration of artistic expression as a means to cope with suffering and confinement in a deeply flawed system. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74989,500,'Reading ease score: 81.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74989,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74989,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74990,520,'"Au pays de Jésus : souvenirs d''un voyage en Palestine" by Matilde Serao is a travel narrative written in the early 20th century. The work reflects the author’s experiences and contemplations as she journeys through Palestine, seeking deeper emotional and spiritual connections to the land''s rich history and sacredness. Serao’s narrative intertwines vivid descriptions of the landscapes with her introspective musings on the essence of travel and the soul of the places she visits.  The opening of the work sets the stage for Serao''s voyage as she prepares to depart from Naples, revealing her mixed emotions of anticipation and trepidation. She reflects on the nature of travelers, categorizing them into various types, with a particular focus on a “sentimental traveler” who is drawn to the deeper spiritual and emotional significance of places rather than mere sights. As the ship leaves the enchanting view of Naples behind, Serao is enveloped in thoughts of longing, wonder, and self-doubt. This establishes her as a thoughtful and sensitive observer who not only seeks to explore Palestine geographically but also aims to engage with its profound spiritual narratives, enriching her experience and that of her readers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74990,500,'Reading ease score: 71.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74990,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74990,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74991,520,'"Sosialistisen filosofian juuret: Feuerbachin filosofian kritiikkiä" by Friedrich Engels is a philosophical work written in the late 19th century. The text explores the roots of socialist philosophy by analyzing the critiques of Ludwig Feuerbach and situating them within the broader context of Hegelian dialectics. Engels aims to dissect and refine philosophical ideas that have influenced socialist thought, particularly in relation to religion and materialism.  The opening of the work introduces the historical backdrop of the 1848 revolutions and the development of radical philosophy in Germany. Engels details the important figures of Marx and himself who sought to articulate a materialistic philosophy that opposed the idealism of Hegel. He emphasizes Feuerbach''s impact on socialist ideology by challenging existing religious and philosophical constructs, leading to a philosophical shift towards materialism. The early sections also hint at the significant debates occurring in the philosophical realm at the time, setting the stage for a detailed examination of Feuerbach’s contributions and the subsequent development of Engels'' materialist perspectives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74991,500,'Reading ease score: 5.7 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74991,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74991,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74992,520,'"Orjavallan perintö: Romaani Kannakselta" by Simo Eronen is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in a lively summer villa community near St. Petersburg, where the affluent gather, displaying their wealth and social status. The narrative seems to follow the lives of various characters as they navigate their circumstances, revealing societal dynamics and personal aspirations within this privileged environment.  At the start of the novel, the scene is set at a railway station where the anticipatory crowd awaits the arrival of a train from the capital. The detailed descriptions highlight the elegance of the wealthy women adorned in current fashion and the interactions among the elite, intermingled with hints of social tensions, particularly towards the Jewish community. Amidst the chatter and atmosphere, two key characters, Salamon Hakuli and Jaakko Vesterinen, emerge, showcasing their contrasting views on wealth and property in contemporary society. The setting hints at deeper explorations of class struggles and personal motivations, laying the groundwork for the unfolding narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74992,500,'Reading ease score: 42.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74992,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74992,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74993,520,'"Folks from Dixie" by Paul Laurence Dunbar is a collection of stories written in the late 19th century. This work captures the experiences and emotions of African American individuals in the South, often exploring themes of love, faith, and the social dynamics of plantation life. The opening portion highlights the character of Anner ''Lizer, a belle of the plantation, and her relationship with Sam Merritt, illustrating the challenges they face amidst the backdrop of religious fervor and personal aspirations.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to Anner ''Lizer, described as the most beautiful woman on the Selfridge estate, who is romantically involved with Sam Merritt. Their relationship is complicated by Anner ''Lizer''s deepening religious conviction, which begins to create a rift between her and Sam, who remains indifferent to the church gatherings that she cherishes. The tension escalates as Anner ''Lizer grapples with her desire for spiritual fulfillment while longing for Sam''s companionship. Ultimately, she realizes that her feelings for him are a stumbling block on her path to salvation, setting the stage for a personal conflict between love and faith. This opening sets up not only the character dynamics but also the cultural and spiritual struggles within the African American community during the era. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74993,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74993,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74993,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74994,520,'"John G. Paton, Missionary to the New Hebrides, Volume 3" by John Gibson Paton is an autobiographical account that was written in the late 19th century. The book chronicles the missionary activities of John G. Paton, focusing on his tireless efforts to spread Christianity in the New Hebrides Islands, amidst adversity, and sheds light on the cultural and spiritual transformation of the islanders.   The opening of this volume sets the stage for Paton''s continued journey during the years 1886 to 1892, highlighting his international missionary work and travels, his concerns about the effects of Western trade practices on the indigenous population, and his vigorous campaign against the sale of intoxicants and firearms to the natives. It also recounts his interactions with various communities while advocating for international prohibition of harmful trades that threaten the well-being of the islands'' inhabitants. The narrative reflects Paton''s deep commitment to his religious mission and the substantial challenges he faced, such as securing support for missionary work while navigating complex political landscapes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74994,500,'Reading ease score: 67.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74994,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74994,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74995,520,'"La Gardienne de l''Idole noire" by Maurice Maindron is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. The story is told from the perspective of Gianbattista Capoferro, a war veteran now residing in an abbey, who reflects on his tumultuous life filled with love, greed, and adventure. As he shares his past exploits, the narrative delves into themes of desire, loss, and the transitory nature of wealth and pleasure against a backdrop of exotic settings, particularly in the Eastern Indies.  At the start of the novel, Gianbattista, an old man, contemplates his life, marked by an insatiable thirst for both love and riches. Confined in an abbey after losing a leg in battle, he recalls his adventurous youth, including a venture to the East Indies where he finds himself entangled in the servitude of a tyrant and drawn into a plot involving a prince and a temple. As the narrative unfolds, Gianbattista is approached by an usurer, Azer, who offers him a lucrative mission to rescue a young princess from a temple guarded by fierce idols. The opening sets a tone of intrigue and hints at the multifaceted nature of Gianbattista’s character—his bravado entwined with deeper vulnerabilities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74995,500,'Reading ease score: 79.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74995,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74995,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74996,520,'"Malombra: Romaani" by Antonio Fogazzaro is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story introduces a young man, Corrado Silla, who arrives at a mysterious castle after receiving a peculiar invitation from a man he has never met, Count Cesare d''Ormengo. Set against a richly described Italian landscape, the novel hints at themes of fate, identity, and human connections woven through the lives of its characters.  At the start of the narrative, Silla takes a train journey that leads him into a world filled with uncertainty and anticipation. As he arrives at a remote station, he encounters local figures who are curious about his destination and the enigmatic count. The atmosphere is heavy with a sense of fate, as Silla steps into the unknown, led by an impetuous driver who reveals some details about the solitary count and his household, igniting Silla''s curiosity. This beginning establishes a strong sense of place and hints at the unfolding drama surrounding the characters’ motivations and secrets as Silla enters the count''s impressive but unsettling domain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74996,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malombra_(novel) https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malombra_(romanzo)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74996,500,'Reading ease score: 42.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74996,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74997,520,'"Valikoima Sigurdin juttuja" by Sigurd is a collection of stories written in the early 20th century. The book features a variety of characters and situations, often exploring themes of family, upbringing, and societal norms, with a particular focus on parental responsibilities and children''s education through the lens of wit and humor.   The opening of the book introduces us to Janne and Amalia, a couple preparing for the arrival of their first child, Jykke. Their contrasting views on parenting emerge as Janne, an academic, sets out a strict educational plan for their son, while Amalia, his wife, expresses concerns about being too harsh. The narrative humorously illustrates their challenges with their newborn, capturing the couple''s struggle to balance discipline with affection while revealing their expectations and hopes for Jykke''s upbringing. Their interactions and the comedic situations arising from their parenting ideals set the tone for the stories to unfold throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74997,500,'Reading ease score: 40.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74997,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74997,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74998,520,'"Profiles" by Pansy (Mrs. G. R. Alden) and Mrs. C. M. Livingston is a collection of narratives written in the late 19th century. The work features multiple stories with moral and religious themes, centered on young women navigating the complexities of personal ethics and social responsibilities. The opening chapters particularly focus on the character of Elsie Burton as she grapples with concepts of purity, influence, and self-awareness in her actions.  At the start of the text, Elsie is preparing for a journey and engages in a conversation with her pastor, Dr. Falconer, who emphasizes the importance of maintaining "clean hands" in both a literal and metaphorical sense. This phrase puzzles her, leading to an introspective journey as she considers how her everyday actions and decisions may reflect on her commitment to her faith and her character. As she reads a small book gifted by Dr. Falconer, which challenges her to reflect on whether her hands could serve her Master, Elsie confronts her thoughts about etiquette, her interactions with others, and the societal pressures of being a young woman in her environment. These themes set the stage for her growth and the moral dilemmas she will confront throughout the narratives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74998,500,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74998,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74998,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74999,520,'"Observations on M. Laennec''s Method of Forming a Diagnosis of the Diseases of the Chest" by Charles Scudamore is a scientific publication written in the early 19th century. The work serves as a critical examination and endorsement of the stethoscope, a medical instrument developed by M. Laennec, and discusses its application alongside percussion for diagnosing chest diseases. It provides insights into the early practices of medical diagnosis and the importance of adopting new techniques in medicine.  The opening of the text establishes Scudamore''s respect for Laennec''s contributions to medical science, noting his experiences while studying at Parisian hospitals. He emphasizes the significance of the stethoscope as an essential tool in clinical practice, particularly for understanding intricate chest diseases that traditional diagnostic methods struggle to clarify. Scudamore invites medical practitioners to embrace this method while retaining established principles, asserting that the stethoscope complements rather than replaces traditional diagnostic techniques, rendering it a valuable asset for ambitious practitioners in the field. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (74999,500,'Reading ease score: 51.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74999,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (74999,446);