insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75249,520,'"Uskonto ja tiede" by Harald Høffding is a philosophical treatise addressing the tensions between religion and science, likely written in the early 20th century. The work explores how the division of labor in society has influenced individual identity and intellectual pursuits, leading to a disconnect between religious beliefs and scientific inquiry. The author examines the historical context of religion as a unified worldview and delves into the ongoing challenges that arise as spiritual needs evolve and separate from scientific understanding.  At the start of the treatise, Høffding introduces the critical state of civilization brought about by the division of labor, asserting that it leads individuals to produce only fragments of their potential. He argues that both religion and science, once harmonious, now stand in opposition due to divergent methods of inquiry and understanding. The opening portion sets the stage for diverse discussions about how spiritual and historical aspects of human existence must adapt to coexist with evolving scientific principles, addressing the fundamental questions that arise as societies seek deeper truths beyond traditional religious frameworks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75249,500,'Reading ease score: 18.8 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75249,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75249,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75250,520,'"Lefty o'' the Big League" by Burt L. Standish is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a young pitcher named Lefty Locke as he attempts to make his way into the competitive world of professional baseball. As he faces challenges from both the manager and fellow players, Lefty''s journey captures the ups and downs of trying to prove oneself in a demanding sport filled with rivalries and personal conflicts.  The opening of the novel introduces Lefty Locke as he arrives at the baseball park to report for training with the Hornets. Immediately met with skepticism from the team''s manager, Brennan, and ridicule from veteran players, Lefty tries to assert himself. Tensions escalate when he eventually ends up in a precarious situation, facing criticism and hostility as he seeks to earn his place on the team. As the narrative unfolds, Lefty''s encounters with both supportive and antagonistic teammates set the stage for his development, revealing themes of perseverance, ambition, and the quest for acceptance amidst the trials of sports life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75250,500,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75250,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75250,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75251,520,'"Ruth: Erzählung" by Lou Andreas-Salomé is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around a young girl named Ruth who navigates her life, exploring her emotions, relationships, and the shifting expectations of society. The opening chapters hint at themes of longing, individuality, and the challenges of youth as seen through the eyes of Ruth and her interactions with various characters.  At the start of the narrative, the setting is introduced in a tranquil morning scene near the outskirts of a Russian city, where Ruth''s family is moving into a new house. The reader quickly meets Erik, her father, and Klare-Bel, her mother, who display a dynamic relationship filled with affection yet tinged with the pressures of domestic life. Ruth is portrayed as a sensitive and introspective girl, grappling with her thoughts of belonging and identity. The scene unfolds to reveal her household environment, her parents’ relationship, and the anticipation of her new life as she prepares to leave the familiar school behind, hinting at a larger journey of self-discovery and emotional growth that lies ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75251,500,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75251,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75251,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75252,520,'"La conqueste du chasteau d’amours conquestee par l''umilité du beau doulx" is a medieval allegorical tale authored in an era typically characterized by the rise of chivalric literature, likely during the late medieval period. This work weaves together themes of humility, valor, and the pursuit of love, illustrating how such qualities can lead to personal triumph and societal recognition.  The narrative follows the journey of a humble young knight, referred to as the "beau doulx," who embarks on a quest to conquer the Castle of Love, spurred by a proclamation from its lady that offers lordship to those who can perform three assigned tasks. Throughout his adventures, the beau doulx showcases his remarkable humility and kindness, which ultimately win him the respect and support of nobility and even whimsical creatures like a kind mouse and a bee. His success culminates when he recognizes the true lady of the castle amongst three contenders, thereby fulfilling the lady''s challenge and earning the title and honor of master of the Castle of Love. The story champions the virtues of humility and demonstrates that true greatness is achieved through modesty and service, echoed in the moral lessons conveyed throughout the tale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75252,500,'Reading ease score: 67.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75252,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75252,447);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75253,520,'"Lettres d''amour" by Cyrano de Bergerac is a collection of epistolary writings composed in the 17th century. The work showcases a series of love letters, rich with emotion and a playful use of language, reflecting the complexities of love and desire. The central figure appears to be a poet deeply enamored, navigating the often tumultuous feelings associated with romantic longings.  At the start of this collection, readers are introduced to Cyrano as he grapples with the torment of unreciprocated love. He writes letters filled with longing, vivid imagery, and a sense of urgency as he pleads for the attention and compassion of his beloved. The emotional tone oscillates between desperation and adoration, capturing the essence of a heart afflicted by the uncertainties of love. These letters reveal Cyrano’s character—intellectual yet vulnerable, intertwining themes of passion, suffering, and the nuances of human connection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75253,500,'Reading ease score: 64.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75253,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75253,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75254,520,'"Physico-theology: Or, a demonstration of the being and attributes of God" by W. Derham is a theological work written in the early 18th century. The text presents a series of sermons that aim to demonstrate the existence and qualities of God through the observation of nature and the works of creation. Derham approaches the relationship between science and theology, illustrating how natural phenomena reflect divine intelligence and design.  The opening of this work sets the stage for a theological exploration grounded in empirical observations of the natural world. Derham expresses his intent to provide a comprehensive survey of God''s creation, particularly focusing on how the complexities and wonders of the universe serve as evidence of a higher power. He acknowledges various predecessors in this field and emphasizes the importance of his lectures, seeking to merge philosophical inquiries with theological insights. Through defining concepts such as the atmosphere, gravity, and other natural elements, he begins to outline their critical roles in sustaining life and underscoring the majesty of the Creator. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75254,500,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75254,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75254,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75255,520,'"Napváros" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the fictional, gloomy city of Nona, which is characterized by its lack of sunlight, dampness, and oppressive atmosphere, reflecting the sense of dread and superstition that pervades the lives of its inhabitants. The introductory chapters provide a rich description of the city''s dark environment while introducing key characters, including Filippa, the daughter of the city’s rector, who becomes embroiled in a dramatic conflict with the neighboring, more vibrant city of Napváros, where she is swept away by the captain''s son, Leif.  The opening of "Napváros" sets the stage by vividly illustrating Nona''s desolate environment, where the city is burdened by superstitions and the fear of authority. It follows the adventures of Filippa as she embarks on a pilgrimage to a seaside chapel, accompanied by her servants, only to be kidnapped by Leif. The narrative quickly establishes a tone of entrapment and conflict, as Filippa''s life becomes intertwined with her captor''s desire to claim her as his bride, resulting in pivotal moments that further shape the story''s unfolding drama and tension between the two cities. This glimpse into the initial chapters conveys a deep sense of foreboding and engages readers with the themes of love, power struggles, and the interplay between darkness and light. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75255,500,'Reading ease score: 68.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75255,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75256,520,'"Pirate Tales from the Law" by Arthur M. Harris is a collection of historical accounts written in the early 20th century. It presents a fascinating overview of notorious pirates from the 18th century, focusing on the legal proceedings that ensued after their captures. The narrative dives into the lives of infamous figures like Captain Kidd, exposing the gritty reality of piracy stripped of myth, while detailing their adventures and eventual fates as brought to justice.  The opening of the text introduces Captain William Kidd, who began his journey as a legitimate trader before being commissioned by the crown to combat piracy. As he sets sail, the conditions aboard his ship and the sea adventures that lie ahead are established, hinting at his eventual moral decline and the choices that lead him toward a piratical life. With vivid descriptions and historical context, Harris establishes a tone that captures both the allure and the brutal reality of life on the high seas, setting the stage for Kidd''s transformation from lawful captain to an infamous pirate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75256,500,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75256,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75256,457);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75257,520,'"The Nights of Straparola, Volume 1" by Giovanni Francesco Straparola is a rich collection of fables and stories written in the mid-16th century. The work serves as a foundational piece in the history of European fairy tales, blending various themes from folklore, morality, and courtly life. It features a colorful cast of characters, including noble figures and common folk, who navigate through moral lessons often established through both humor and misadventure.  The beginning of "The Nights of Straparola" introduces readers to a charming assembly of characters—including the graceful Lucretia and her entourage of beautiful maidens—who gather in a splendid palace to share stories during the Carnival season. The tales are brought to life through their vivid narratives, starting with a fable about Salardo, a young man who defies the wise injunctions left by his deceased father, leading to a series of comedic and tragic misfortunes. The stories are structured around humor and moral teachings, and set the stage for the rich storytelling tradition that Straparola advocates, proving to be both entertaining and thought-provoking as the characters grapple with notions of love, loyalty, and folly. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75257,500,'Reading ease score: 61.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75257,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75257,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75258,520,'"The Perfume of the Lady in Black" by Gaston Leroux is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the aftermath of a wedding between Robert Darzac and Mathilde Stangerson, taking place in a shadowy, foreboding church. The main character, Joseph Rouletabille, a young and clever reporter, is expected to play a pivotal role in unraveling the mystery surrounding the couple''s past and a lurking threat that could disrupt their newfound happiness.  The opening of the novel presents a wedding marked by an atmosphere filled with unease and fear, as characters express their lingering concerns about Frederic Larsan, a presumed dead enemy linked to a traumatic past event. The wedding attendees, especially Rouletabille, are caught in a whirlwind of emotions, with the absence of Rouletabille noted when Mathilde seeks him out in distress. His unexplained disappearance evokes worry, hinting at a greater mystery at play. Additionally, the text unveils Rouletabille''s complicated feelings towards Mathilde and his past encounters with her, suggesting a layered narrative that intertwines themes of love, loss, and the pursuit of truth as the story develops. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75258,500,'Reading ease score: 79.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75258,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75258,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75259,520,'"Lankeemus" by Emmanuel Bove is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Armand, who unexpectedly encounters his old friend Lucien, prompting a reflection on their past and present circumstances. The book explores themes of social status, friendship, and the complexities of human emotions as Armand navigates societal expectations and his personal relationships.  At the start of the narrative, Armand walks through a cold, narrow street, where he meets Lucien after several years apart. They engage in an awkward reunion filled with memories and realizations about their changed lives; Armand has become more affluent while Lucien remains in his previous, struggling state. Their interaction at a café reveals deep-seated feelings of inadequacy and nostalgia, as Armand grapples with his past and the impact of their socioeconomic differences on their friendship. The opening sets a tone of introspection, marking the beginning of a complex exploration of identity, class, and personal connection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75259,500,'Reading ease score: 45.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75259,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75260,520,'"Olavinlapset" by Sigrid Undset is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. It explores the life of Olav, a farmer, as he navigates the challenges of life, relationships, and ambitions in a setting characterized by agricultural life and familial bonds. The story opens with vivid descriptions of nature, family dynamics, and hints at Olav''s internal struggles following the loss of his wife, revealing themes of grief, longing, and the desire for adventure.  The beginning of the novel presents a spring day in which Olav is working on his farm alongside his son, Eirik. As they manage farm tasks, Eirik''s excitement for the outside world and future adventures is highlighted, contrasting with Olav’s somber reflections on life since his wife’s death. The presence of visitors brings news of trade and opportunities for travel, stirring Olav''s unexpressed desire to leave his grief behind and seek new experiences. The dynamic between the father and son is further explored, reflecting Olav''s complicated feelings of responsibility and his struggle to connect with Eirik amidst his own overwhelming sorrow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75260,500,'Reading ease score: 47.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75260,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75260,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75261,520,'"Frank and Andy at Boarding School, or Rivals for Many Honors" by Vance Barnum is a fictional novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story introduces Frank and Andy Racer, two brothers embarking on their first adventure at Riverview Hall, a boarding school that quickly does not live up to their expectations. The narrative explores themes of camaraderie, school life, and the challenges of adapting to a new environment, showcasing the boys'' humorous antics and the struggles they face as newcomers.  At the start of the book, Frank and Andy are on a riverboat heading toward Riverview Hall, expressing excitement and curiosity about their new school. Upon arrival, they are disappointed to learn from a passerby that Riverview is an outdated institution compared to Waterside Hall, a rival school boasting a lively atmosphere. Their first day at Riverview is marred by encounters with the unpleasant Professor Callum, who shows little interest in the boys'' well-being. Additionally, they witness conflicts surrounding their fellow student, Gertrude Morton, who faces financial difficulties. The opening chapters set the stage for Frank and Andy''s determination to improve their school environment and defend their new friend while grappling with the realities of their situation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75261,500,'Reading ease score: 93.5 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75261,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75261,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75262,520,'"Calvin Morgan McClung Historical Collection" is a historical compilation of books, pamphlets, manuscripts, pictures, and maps that pertains to early Western travel and the history and genealogy of Tennessee and other Southern states, written in the early 20th century. This collection serves as an organized catalog of historical materials highlighting significant aspects of Southern history, particularly that of Tennessee, and is presented by Mrs. Calvin M. McClung to the Lawson McGhee Library.  The opening of the work introduces the author Calvin Morgan McClung and the focus of the collection, emphasizing his dedication to the historical narrative of his state and its region. It is clear that McClung’s passion for accuracy and thoroughness is evident in this meticulously arranged compilation, which is a result of collaborative efforts from library professionals. The catalog itself is organized alphabetically, suggesting a systematic approach to documenting and preserving the rich historical heritage related to Tennessee and the broader Southern context. This introduction sets the stage for a wealth of information about influential figures, events, and cultural dynamics that would be of great interest to anyone invested in the history of this region. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75262,500,'Reading ease score: 70.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75262,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75262,436);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57908,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawson_McGhee_Library');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75263,520,'"From the Heart of a Friend" by Amy Addingley is a collection of reflections and quotes centered around the theme of friendship, compiled in the early 20th century. The book explores the intricate nature and profound significance of friendship throughout human experience. Through a variety of authors and thinkers, it celebrates the joys, challenges, and lasting bonds that form between friends.   The content is arranged thematically, featuring various quotes that encapsulate the essence and importance of friendship—from its joys and comforts during good times to its value in moments of adversity. Addingley offers insights on the characteristics of true friends, the need for loyalty, and the irreplaceable nature of deep connections. Through the words of notable writers like Emerson, Shakespeare, and Byron, the book serves as both a tribute and a guide to understanding and cultivating meaningful friendships, emphasizing that these bonds are among the most cherished aspects of human life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75263,500,'Reading ease score: 75.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75263,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75263,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75264,520,'"L''histoire sociale au Palais de justice. Plaidoyers philosophiques" by Émile de Saint-Auban is a philosophical legal treatise written in the late 19th century. This work examines the interplay of finance, politics, and justice in contemporary society through a series of arguments presented in a court setting. It delves into significant historical events that reflect the moral and institutional decay of society.  The opening of the work establishes the author''s intent to offer a candid exploration of the legal system, suggesting that his arguments not only defend his clients but also serve as a commentary on broader societal issues. He emphasizes the necessity for lawyers to adopt a philosophical perspective to understand and articulate the complexities surrounding justice, particularly as it relates to the influence of financiers and politicians in shaping legal outcomes. Throughout this introduction, de Saint-Auban frames the courtroom as a stage where the dramas of societal conflict unfold, indicating a focus on justice''s potential for both corruption and enlightenment in a time of moral ambiguity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75264,500,'Reading ease score: 69.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75264,457);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75264,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75265,520,'"Notes on the Royal Academy Exhibition, 1868" by Wm. Michael Rossetti and Algernon C. Swinburne is a critical examination of art exhibitions, specifically focusing on the Royal Academy events, written in the mid-19th century. This work merges commentary with personal impressions of the exhibited artworks, reflecting on the trends and qualities in the art of the period. The topics generally cover critiques of individual pieces and broader observations on the evolution of British painting, touching upon the impacts of Præraphaelitism and changes in artistic standards.  At the start of this compilation, Rossetti introduces the premise that each piece of art offers its unique narrative and perspective, underscoring the subjective nature of art criticism. He candidly addresses potential criticisms he anticipates for his opinions and intentions in reviewing the works displayed. The opening portion features thoughts on various artists and paintings, emphasizing a critical lens through which the changes in style and substance of the Royal Academy''s exhibition are evaluated. Rossetti discusses the current state of British art, pointing out the balance between technical skill and artistic depth, which sets the tone for the critiques and insights to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75265,500,'Reading ease score: 66.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75265,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75265,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75266,520,'"Trial of the Major War Criminals Before the International Military Tribunal" is an official account documenting the Nuremberg Trials, published in the late 1940s. This historical work records the proceedings against key figures of the Nazi regime, focusing on the complex legal and moral arguments surrounding their actions during World War II, particularly concerning issues of obedience and responsibility within the military hierarchy. The work serves as a crucial resource for understanding the judicial processes that sought justice for war crimes.  The opening of the text introduces the formal context of the trials held from November 1945 to October 1946, outlining the procedural framework and emphasizing the absence of certain defendants. Dr. Otto Nelte, the counsel for one of the defendants, Wilhelm Keitel, begins addressing the Tribunal''s questions surrounding the principle of military obedience, highlighting the ideological challenges faced by military leaders under Hitler''s command. It establishes the mental and ethical dilemmas posed by orders that contradicted international law, setting the stage for a thorough examination of war crimes, moral guilt, and the defense arguments of those involved. This introductory material lays a foundational understanding of the trials'' gravity and significance in post-war jurisprudence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75266,500,'Reading ease score: 42.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75266,457);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75266,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75267,520,'"Wald: Der deutsche Wald und was er raunt und singt" by Ernst Weber and Willibald Weingärtner is a collection of poetry and prose reflecting on the beauty, mysteries, and significance of the German forest, published in the early 20th century. The work captures various poems that explore themes of nature, nostalgia, and the intimate bond between humanity and the natural world, likely appealing to readers who appreciate lyrical imagery and philosophical musings on the environment.  The opening of this collection sets the stage with a series of poetic reflections about the German forest, filled with vivid imagery and emotional resonance. It begins with a lyrical homage to the forest, presenting it as a cherished space that evokes memories of childhood and a sense of belonging. Various authors contribute verses that personify the forest, celebrating its seasons and sounds, detailing interactions with wildlife, and hinting at deeper themes of life, death, and spiritual connection to nature. The text appears to encourage a contemplative and reverent attitude towards the natural world, immersing readers in the enchantment and solemnity of the woods. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75267,500,'Reading ease score: 79.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75267,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75267,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75268,520,'"Koning Hendrik de Zesde" by William Shakespeare is a historical drama written during the late 16th century. The play centers around the tumultuous reign of King Henry VI of England, touching upon themes of power, family loyalty, and the chaos of war during the period of the Wars of the Roses. With a cast of characters that includes figures such as Henry VI, the Duke of Gloucester, and the iconic Joan of Arc, it delves into the struggles between the houses of York and Lancaster.  At the start of the play, the characters mourn the death of Henry V, with prominent nobles gathered around his coffin in Westminster Abbey. The atmosphere is somber, reflecting their concerns about the state of England and the threats posed by France. As tensions rise, a messenger brings alarming news of lost territories to the French, suggesting deepening divisions among the English lords. This early scene sets the stage for the ensuing power struggles marked by alliances, betrayals, and conflicts that will unfold throughout the play as England grapples with internal strife and external threats. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75268,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_VI_(play)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75268,500,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75268,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75268,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75269,520,'"La Palingenesi di Roma: (da Livio a Machiavelli)" by G. e L. Ferrero is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work explores the evolution of Roman historiography, tracing its development from the early chronicles of Livy to the influential writings of Machiavelli. The authors examine how ancient Roman civilization has shaped modern thought and political theory, emphasizing the interplay between historical narrative and moral philosophy.  The opening of the book introduces the reader to the context of Roman historical writing, referencing key figures such as Cicero, Sallust, Livy, and Tacitus. It establishes a duality in Roman historiography, contrasting the older, more rigid annalistic style with the eloquent and artistic methods that emerged later. Through a consideration of the moral and philosophical undertones in the works of these historians, the Ferreros set the stage for a comprehensive analysis of how Roman history has been interpreted and valued over time, particularly in relation to contemporary society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75269,500,'Reading ease score: 38.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75269,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75269,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75270,520,'"The Return of Alcestis: A Play in One Act" by Laurence Housman is a dramatic work written in the early 20th century. The play reimagines the ancient Greek myth of Alcestis, focusing on themes of love, sacrifice, and the interplay between life and death. Set in a single act, it explores the emotional and moral dilemmas faced by the characters within this mythological context.  In this adaptation, Alcestis returns from the dead after sacrificing herself so that her husband, King Admetus, could live. The play opens with a sense of joy about her return, but as the story unfolds, it reveals Alcestis''s melancholic state upon returning. She struggles with the realization of what death truly means, questioning the value of life after such a profound experience. Although Admetus initially rejoices at her return, the joy is overshadowed by the overall tragedy, as Alcestis is unable to fully embrace life again, leading to a heartbreaking conclusion that reflects the complexity of love and loss. The characters'' dialogues reveal deep emotional insights and evoke a sense of mourning even amidst the celebration, culminating in Alcestis ultimately succumbing to death once again, leaving a powerful impact on Admetus and the audience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75270,500,'Reading ease score: 92.6 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75270,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75270,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75271,520,'"Tales of the Turf" by Hugh S. Fullerton is a collection of short stories centered around the world of horse racing, written in the early 20th century. This work captures the essence of life on the American turf, highlighting the characters, triumphs, and tribulations that accompany this popular sport. The stories blend human interest with the unique culture surrounding horse racing.  In "Tales of the Turf," Fullerton presents a vivid portrayal of the racing scene through memorable characters such as Hardshell Gaines, an honest yet impoverished horse owner with dreams of breeding champions, and Jaundice O’Keefe, a once-prominent jockey whose life spirals into the depths of vice and despair. The narratives delve into the challenges faced by these individuals and others involved in the racing community, such as gamblers and trainers, as they navigate a world filled with ambition, betrayal, and the quest for redemption. Through these tales, Fullerton intertwines the thrill of competition with poignant observations on human nature and the love of horses, ultimately depicting the complex and often harsh realities of life on the racetrack. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75271,500,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75271,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75271,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75272,520,'"Willem Janszoon Blaeu, 1571-1638: A Sketch of His Life and Work" by Edward Luther Stevenson, Ph.D. is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The work centers on the life and contributions of Willem Janszoon Blaeu, a prominent cartographer, printer, and globe maker of the early 17th century from the Netherlands. The book delves into Blaeu''s significant achievements in the fields of geography and astronomy, particularly noting his famous world map of 1605.  The opening of this account introduces readers to Blaeu''s early life, beginning with his childhood in Alkmaar and subsequent move to Amsterdam, where he developed a passion for mathematics and astronomy. It highlights his apprenticeship under Tycho Brahe at the observatory on the island of Hveen, detailing his formative years in the realm of scientific study. As the text progresses, it hints at Blaeu''s evolution into one of the foremost figures in cartography, setting the stage for exploring his innovations in map-making and printing that would leave a lasting legacy in the scientific community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75272,500,'Reading ease score: 54.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75272,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75272,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75273,520,'"Death in the Dusk" by Virgil Markham is a fictional novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around Alfred Bannerlee, who recounts a series of unsettling events that transpired during a wedding celebration in Wales at Highglen House, an old estate surrounded by dark legends and peculiar occurrences. As the narrative unfolds, themes of mystery, supernatural phenomena, and human folly emerge, along with a diverse cast of intriguing characters, including a mad parson and a veil of ominous secrets.  At the start of the novel, we find Alfred Bannerlee in Highglen House, filled with anxiety and a sense of impending dread as he navigates the chaotic atmosphere of a wedding party. Amidst the festivities, he becomes aware of various tensions among the guests, particularly revolving around the mysterious absence of Sir Brooke Mortimer. As the night progresses, strange occurrences begin to unfold, including disconcerting cries from outside that draw the attention of all present, further heightening the suspense. As Bannerlee attempts to make sense of the chaos around him, the looming figure of Parson Lolly, a character shrouded in enigma, sets a tone of foreboding that suggests perilous adventures yet to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75273,500,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75273,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75273,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75274,520,'"A Crown of Shame, Volume 1" by Florence Marryat is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds in San Diego during a time of disease and turmoil, focusing on the life of Elizabeth "Liz" Fellows, the devoted daughter of a doctor, as she navigates the challenges of her profession amidst a deadly epidemic. Liz is portrayed as a compassionate and capable woman, dedicating herself to caring for the sick and confronting issues of social stigma, especially as she witnesses the struggles of the local community.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Liz as she contemplates the oppressive heat and mounting despair in her surroundings. As she interacts with the local population—particularly the grieving mothers affected by the fever—Liz''s resilience and empathy shine through. Her relationship with her father, Dr. Fellows, is both supportive and complicated by his own melancholy. The tension escalates further when Liz is confronted with scandal and the secrets of her father''s past, hinting at a deeper theme of shame that intertwines with the personal and societal struggles present in their lives. As Liz grapples with love and loyalty amidst turmoil, the narrative sets the stage for a rich exploration of personal sacrifice and societal judgment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75274,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75274,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75275,520,'"A Crown of Shame, Volume 2" by Florence Marryat is a novel written during the late 19th century. This volume continues the story of Lizzie, who is grappling with the sudden death of her father and the burden of caring for an infant left in their charge, amid growing suspicions from the community that she is the child''s mother. The narrative extends themes of honor, reputation, and the complexities of female friendships as Lizzie''s life becomes ensnared in scandal.  The opening of this volume finds Lizzie in a profound state of grief over her father''s passing while also facing the troubling rumors circulating about her relationship to the child she has taken in. As she interacts with Quita, her adopted sister, Liz reveals the weight of her secret, a binding oath taken in silence over their shared past. As she contemplates asking Quita to confess the child’s true parentage, tension arises as Quita grapples with her own fears and desires, leading to a complex interplay of loyalty, love, and the desire to protect one another even amidst a precarious situation. The strong emotional currents and moral dilemmas set up a gripping narrative that invites readers to reflect on societal pressures and personal integrity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75275,500,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75275,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75276,520,'"A Crown of Shame, Volume 3" by Florence Marryat is a novel written in the late 19th century. This concluding volume follows the intertwining lives of several characters within a plantation society, focusing particularly on Rosa, who is left behind on Maraquita''s wedding day, and Maraquita herself, who grapples with the consequences of her choices amidst rising tensions and conflicts in San Diego. The narrative delves into themes of betrayal, love, and societal expectations.  At the start of the novel, Rosa is seen discontented and reluctant to care for Maraquita''s baby while all others, including her love interest Juan, attend the wedding festivities. The scene introduces a complex backdrop where characters like Judy, who conspires with Henri de Courcelles, and Lizzie, who acts as a caretaker, emerge into focus. As Rosa relinquishes her ambitions for a semblance of social acknowledgment, parallel tensions evolve with Maraquita''s marriage that promises both glory and regret. This section sets the stage for deeper explorations of love, identity, and rebellion as the lives of these characters are further intertwined against the backdrop of impending upheaval in their community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75276,500,'Reading ease score: 79.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75276,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75277,520,'"Kriegsgefangen: Erlebtes 1870" by Theodor Fontane is a historical account likely written in the late 19th century. The book explores the author''s experiences during the Franco-Prussian War, focusing on moments of detention and the turmoil of war. Through Fontane''s perspective, we encounter various characters and situations that reflect the complexity of military conflict and personal struggle.  At the start of the narrative, the author describes his arrival in Toul, where he plans a journey to the historical land associated with Joan of Arc. After encountering logistical difficulties and meeting several local characters—including a sickly Madame Grosjean who struggles to arrange transportation—he embarks on his journey to Domremy. However, he experiences tension with the local populace, culminating in a moment where he is detained and questioned about his identity and purpose. The opening sets a tone of apprehension and intrigue, establishing the author''s reflections on both the beauty of the French landscape and the harsh realities of war. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75277,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kriegsgefangen',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75277,500,'Reading ease score: 69.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75277,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75277,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75278,520,'"Mistä tulen, mihin menen? : Johdantoa salaisiin tieteihin" by Carl Du Prel is a philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. The work delves into the profound questions surrounding human existence, such as our origins, purpose, and ultimate fate. At its core, the text examines the human condition, arguing that our understanding of ourselves is shrouded in mystery and that both science and philosophy struggle to provide satisfactory answers.  The opening of the text establishes a contemplative tone focused on the enigmatic nature of human existence. Du Prel raises fundamental questions about the relationship between psychology and the soul, challenging the adequacy of materialistic interpretations of life. He proposes a comparative exploration of different philosophical perspectives—materialistic, pantheistic, and mystical—on what it means to be human. Using metaphors, such as the story of a mariner awakening on a deserted island without knowledge of his past, Du Prel illustrates humanity''s shared confusion regarding identity and existence, setting the stage for deeper exploration into the nature of the soul and its relationship with the physical body as the text unfolds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75278,500,'Reading ease score: 20.6 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75278,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75278,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75279,520,'"The Ugly-Girl Papers: or, Hints for the Toilet" by S. D. Power is a beauty guide written in the late 19th century. This work offers insights and recommendations on enhancing one''s appearance, emphasizing the importance of a woman''s overall beauty and self-care rituals. The book appears to address the concerns and experiences of women, particularly those who might feel less attractive, and it provides practical advice on nurturing both physical and spiritual well-being.  The opening of the book introduces readers to Power''s perspective on beauty, suggesting that a woman’s satisfaction with herself is paramount to her appeal to others. The narrative touches upon the emotional weight that beauty—or the lack thereof—carries in women''s lives and advocates for self-acceptance and continued effort toward personal enhancement. Power outlines various dietary and skincare practices aimed at achieving a clear complexion and enhancing overall beauty, emphasizing that physical allure must be paired with self-confidence and health. The early chapters outline foundational beauty principles, such as the significance of proper diet and skin care routines, resonating with contemporary notions of holistic beauty approaches. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75279,500,'Reading ease score: 69.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75279,439);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75279,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75280,520,'"Metsäpirtissä: Satunäytelmä" by Antti Rytkönen is a play written in the early 20th century. The book centers around the themes of family, hardship, and the spirit of Christmas, exploring the dynamics of a rural Finnish household during the festive season. It reflects the struggles faced by families during that period, particularly in regards to scarcity and hope.  The story unfolds on Christmas Eve in a modest home where a mother prepares a festive meal while her father contemplates leaving to seek a better life. As their children express their excitement for the holiday and their longing for food, a beggar enters, revealing the severity of his own struggles. The family''s selflessness shines through as they share their meager Christmas meal with the beggar, which culminates in the arrival of Santa Claus, symbolizing generosity and joy. The play emphasizes the importance of kindness and community support, ultimately conveying that goodwill and compassion are at the heart of the Christmas spirit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75280,500,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75280,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75280,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75281,520,'"Dorset Dear: Idylls of Country Life" by M. E. Francis is a collection of stories that likely celebrates rural life, likely written in the early 20th century. The tales are set in the picturesque countryside of Dorset, focusing on the simple lives and dramas of its inhabitants, threading together humor, community, and the quirks of country living.  The opening portion introduces readers to Ann Kerley, an unexpectedly accused witch who navigates a series of misunderstandings and rustic gossip. Following a chaotic encounter with local boys who mistake her for a witch due to her appearance, she significantly struggles with her new reputation in the village. As Ann grapples with the community''s suspicion, the narrative paints a vivid picture of rural dynamics and showcases her warmth and resilience amid adversity. The beginning hints at larger themes of acceptance and the humorous intricacies of life in a close-knit village. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75281,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75281,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75281,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75282,520,'"The Pirates of the New England Coast, 1630-1730" by George Francis Dow and John Henry Edmonds is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the lore of piracy along the New England coast during a transformative period in American maritime history. It examines the infamous pirates of the region and their impact on early American society, bringing to life the complex interrelationship between piracy, commerce, and law in the colonies.  The opening of this historical account sets the stage by discussing the rich tapestry of anecdotal tales surrounding pirates that have been woven into New England’s cultural fabric. It highlights the intertwining of legend and reality, noting how many well-known pirate stories may have emerged from the activities of smugglers and the challenges posed by the British Navigation Acts. The authors emphasize their commitment to providing a factual narrative grounded in original documents and verified accounts, while also acknowledging the intricate fabric of pirate adventures that has captivated imaginations through the ages. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75282,500,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75282,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75282,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75283,520,'"Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism" by Daisetz Teitaro Suzuki is a scholarly exposition on the principles and doctrines of Mahayana Buddhism, written in the early 20th century. The work aims to clarify the misconceptions held by Western critics regarding Mahayana teachings while simultaneously fostering academic interest in this significant religious tradition. The text serves as an introduction to the complexities and historical development of Mahayana Buddhism, meticulously detailing its distinctions from Hīnayāna Buddhism.  At the start of the work, Suzuki outlines the dual objectives of his study: to counter prevalent misunderstandings about Mahayana Buddhism among Western audiences and to introduce the intricacies of its teachings to a broader scholarly community. He discusses the historical formation of the Mahayana school, highlighting its inclusive and evolving nature compared to its Hīnayāna counterpart. The opening chapters set the stage for a deeper exploration of key concepts, such as non-âtman, the significance of Dharma, and the role of Bodhisattvas, indicating the systematic and comprehensive approach he will take throughout the text. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75283,500,'Reading ease score: 56.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75283,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75283,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75284,520,'"An Inquiry into the Propagation of Contagious Poisons by the Atmosphere" by S. Scott Alison is a scientific publication written in the early 19th century. This work critically examines the widely accepted beliefs surrounding atmospheric contagion, questioning the existence and influence of "contagious poisons" propagated through the air. It addresses the implications of these beliefs on public health, medical treatment, and the psychological well-being of patients and their caretakers.  The opening of the inquiry sets the stage for a comprehensive examination of the concept of atmospheric contagion and its implications on public perception and medical practice. Alison asserts that the prevailing fear of contagion leads to unnecessary panic and detrimental consequences for patients seeking care, as well as their relatives and healthcare workers who may feel compelled to avoid them. He plans to present evidence that demonstrates the absence of this type of contagion, proposing instead that many infections may stem from other causes, such as vitiated air and environmental factors, urging a reassessment of public health strategies and medical responses during epidemics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75284,500,'Reading ease score: 43.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75284,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75284,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75285,520,'"Hellas: Griechisches Leben und altklassischer Geist in deutscher Wiedergeburt" herausgegeben von Dr. Ernst Weber ist eine Auswahl deutschsprachiger Literatur, die im frühen 20. Jahrhundert veröffentlicht wurde. Das Werk präsentiert eine Reihe von Gedichten und Prosa-Stücken, die auf dem antiken griechischen Leben und dessen künstlerischen Werten basieren. Es thematisiert die Wiedergeburt des klassischen Geistes und die Einflüsse der griechischen Kultur auf die deutsche Literatur.  At the start of the anthology, the reader is welcomed with a preface that sets the tone for the exploration of Greek ideals and their significance to German identity. It lays the groundwork for a collection that includes poignant pieces by renowned authors such as Goethe, Schiller, and Hölderlin, capturing key moments and characters from Greek mythology, such as Prometheus and Iphigenia. The introduction emphasizes the connection between Greece and Germany, highlighting how the latter''s cultural endeavors draw inspiration from the ancient past, showcasing a blend of admiration and reinterpretation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75285,500,'Reading ease score: 76.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75285,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75285,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75286,520,'"Szerelmesek" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around a social gathering hosted by a well-to-do couple, the Herberts, illustrating the dynamics among their affluent guests. The characters are introduced amidst a backdrop of societal expectations and personal conflicts, particularly revolving around Klotild, a young widow, and her tumultuous feelings for Arady Sándor, a diplomat who appears to be losing interest in her.  The opening of the novel paints a vivid picture of the Herbert household during an evening gathering. As guests mingle, the atmosphere is punctuated by discomfort: the host reveres social etiquette, while an unexpected act—a young man''s dance—causes a scandal that preys on their rigid social morals. Klotild, who faints at the party, becomes the focus of further intrigue with her past connection to Sándor, revealing underlying tensions in their relationship as they navigate societal pressures and personal aspirations. The nuances of love, societal standing, and the difficulties of the heart lay the foundation for the complexities that will unfold throughout the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75286,500,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75286,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75286,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75287,520,'"Bird Studies with a Camera" by Frank M. Chapman is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This detailed work delves into the practice of bird photography, exploring both the necessary equipment and techniques needed to capture images of birds in their natural habitats. Chapman aims to provide a comprehensive guide for both novice and seasoned enthusiasts, emphasizing the importance of patience and skill in documenting the intricate lives of birds.  The opening of the book sets the tone for an engaging exploration of bird photography. Chapman discusses the recent emergence of this practice in the United States, expressing a heartfelt desire to share his own experiences and insights to encourage interest in birdlife. He outlines the challenges faced by bird photographers and emphasizes the scientific value of capturing detailed images, which convey critical information about bird species that text alone cannot. With a blend of practical advice and personal anecdotes, Chapman introduces readers to the joy and complexities of photographing birds, positioning this pursuit as a rewarding alternative to traditional hunting methods. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75287,500,'Reading ease score: 63.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75287,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75287,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75288,520,'"The Seven Dials Mystery" by Agatha Christie is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story begins with a humorous portrayal of young Jimmy Thesiger and the social dynamics of a country house where he is staying, setting the stage for a mystery that intertwines with the lives of its characters. The introduction hints at themes of class, friendship, and the comedic elements of life that will later contrast with the more serious events that unfold.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Jimmy Thesiger, who is late for breakfast and in conflict with the house''s standards of punctuality, particularly under the stern gaze of his hostess, Lady Coote. The opening scenes depict the interactions between the guests at Chimneys, and we learn about their relationships, particularly the vague yet comical mischief involving their mutual friend Gerald Wade. Just as the social banter unfolds, underlying tensions hint at a more significant mystery tied to Gerald''s peculiar behavior, creating an atmosphere ripe for intrigue. The humor juxtaposed with hints of deeper relationships reflects the complexities of the characters’ lives, hinting at events that will cascade into a gripping mystery involving secrets, potential murder, and unforeseen consequences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75288,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Seven_Dials_Mystery',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75288,500,'Reading ease score: 86.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75288,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75289,520,'"Electric Railways" by James R. Cravath is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The treatise focuses on the modern development of electric traction, providing practical guidance on the latest methods of electric railroad equipment and operation. It aims to educate both experienced professionals and beginners in the field of electric railways.  At the start of the treatise, the foreword emphasizes the rapid advancements in engineering and technology that prompted the need for practical working guides in electric railway operation. It highlights the book''s practical approach, designed to be accessible for self-instruction and home study, ensuring that readers can grasp essential concepts without needing advanced technical expertise. The introduction to electric railways delineates various methods of current supply, including overhead trolley and third-rail systems, and sets the stage for discussions on electric motors, car equipment, construction, operation, and advancements in technology. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75289,500,'Reading ease score: 58.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75289,430);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75289,437);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75290,520,'"Kahden muurahaisen seikkailut" by Nanny Hammarström is a children''s adventure story written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers on two young ants and explores their experiences as they navigate their world, providing an imaginative introduction to the intricate lives of insects and nature. Through whimsical storytelling and the perspective of the main character, Rufa, it combines entertainment with educational insights about nature.  The opening of the tale introduces Rufa, a young ant, who recounts his journey from a tiny egg to becoming an adventurous member of the ant community. He describes his first experiences in the ant colony, meeting his caretaker, Aunt Formica, and the trials he faces in adapting to life as an ant. Rufa learns about foraging, caring for younger ants, and the dangers of their environment, including encounters with natural predators. The narrative sets a foundation for themes of curiosity, growth, and companionship, suggesting that Rufa''s journey will continue to uncover lessons and adventures in their bustling ant world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75290,500,'Reading ease score: 60.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75290,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75290,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75291,520,'"Rakkauden kirous: Romaani" by Toivo Tarvas is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a young woman named Rakel, who grapples with the weight of poverty and the constraints it places on her personal life and relationships. As she navigates a complicated engagement and her father''s declining health, themes of love, sacrifice, and social expectations emerge, drawing readers into her poignant struggle.  The opening of the novel introduces Rakel as she reflects on the stark reality of her life, particularly in the face of financial hardship. We see her sorrow over the end of her engagement to Captain Denisoff and the toll her father’s illness takes on their previously lavish lifestyle. As Rakel tries to maintain a semblance of normalcy while hiding the family''s financial difficulties from her father, she is confronted with choices that challenge her moral integrity. The relationships around her, including her interactions with Herbert and the enigmatic Dr. Dahl, hint at deeper emotional conflicts that will unfold as the story progresses. The tension between societal expectations and personal desires begins to surface, setting the stage for the unraveling of Rakel’s journey through love and hardship. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75291,500,'Reading ease score: 43.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75291,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75291,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75292,520,'"Travels to Tana and Persia" by Josafa Barbaro and Ambrogio Contarini is a historical account written in the 15th and 16th centuries. The book provides a detailed narrative of Italian merchants'' travels to Persia and Tana, exploring the cultures, customs, and geographical landscapes encountered during their journeys. The main characters, Barbaro and Contarini, serve as firsthand witnesses to the exotic and often harsh realities of these foreign lands.  At the start of the narrative, the transcriber notes the importance of preserving the historical accuracy of the original text, detailing the experiences and observations of Josafa Barbaro during his two voyages to Tana and Persia. Barbaro reflects on the marvels and barbarities of foreign territories compared to his homeland, England, praising its civilities and abundant resources. He expresses gratitude for his homeland while preparing to share the intriguing, sometimes astonishing tales of the lands he has explored, emphasizing the stark contrasts between the cultures he encountered. Throughout the opening, he sets the foundation for his subsequent detailed descriptions of the peoples, landscapes, and adventures that await in his travels. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75292,500,'Reading ease score: 66.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75292,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75292,447);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57917,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Thomas_(MP_for_Old_Sarum_and_Downton)');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75293,520,'"The War Drama of the Eagles: Napoleon''s Standard-Bearers on the Battlefield" by Edward Fraser is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The book focuses on the critical role of Napoleon''s eagle standards during various battles from Austerlitz to Waterloo, highlighting the heroism and bravery exhibited by the soldiers bearing these emblems. Through unique stories and testimonies, it aims to celebrate not only the French soldiers under Napoleon but also their British adversaries, offering insights into military life and the intense valor that defined this period.  The opening of the work introduces the concept of the eagle as a pivotal symbol of the French Empire, detailing Napoleon''s early decision in 1804 to adopt it as the military standard. It discusses the political backdrop of the time, including debates within Napoleon''s council regarding appropriate symbols of authority, showcasing Napoleon''s eventual choice of the eagle that linked him to historical figures like Charlemagne. The text sets the stage for the forthcoming narratives of battle, emphasizing the significance of both the eagle and its bearers in inspiring loyalty, honor, and a sense of identity among the troops facing tremendous challenges on the battlefield. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75293,500,'Reading ease score: 64.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75293,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75293,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75294,520,'"History as Literature and Other Essays" by Theodore Roosevelt is a collection of essays and addresses written in the early 20th century. The work explores the interconnections between history, literature, and science, arguing for a more expansive view of literature that encompasses historical writing and its importance in civic education and culture. Roosevelt presents a passionate defense of the literary quality in historical narratives and addresses, emphasizing that true history should not only be factual but also engaging and expressive.  At the start of this work, Roosevelt sets the tone by introducing his main thesis: that history should be regarded as a form of literature, and this assertion leads him into a critical discussion on the relationship between literary expression, imaginative power, and the presentation of historical facts. He contends that while accurate research is necessary for writing history, it must also be articulated in a way that captivates the audience. Roosevelt uses examples from various historical contexts to illustrate how the combination of factual rigor and literary flair enriches the understanding of history, and he advocates for the inclusion of vivid storytelling to convey the human experience in the past. This opening portion serves as a robust introduction to the larger arguments and themes that he will further explore throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75294,500,'Reading ease score: 47.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75294,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75294,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75295,520,'"Sketches of Lowly Life in a Great City" by Michael Angelo Woolf is a picture book filled with humorous illustrations and captions that depict life among the lower classes in a bustling urban setting. Written during the late 19th century, this work offers a glimpse into the daily struggles and idiosyncrasies of city dwellers, highlighting their resilience and character amidst challenging circumstances. The book serves as both a social commentary and a light-hearted exploration of the human condition.  The content of the book features a series of illustrated vignettes that capture various moments in the lives of its characters. Through clever dialogue and engaging scenarios, Woolf brings to life the experiences of children, families, and individuals navigating love, poverty, and social dynamics. The illustrations are imbued with humor and pathos, showcasing the charm and quirks of city life, from playful exchanges between children to comedic takes on adult relationships. Overall, the book paints a vivid picture of urban life, inviting readers to empathize with and appreciate the rich tapestry of human experiences found within the lower echelons of society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75295,500,'Reading ease score: 84.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75295,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75295,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75296,520,'"Reconnaissance au Maroc, 1883-1884" by Charles de Foucauld is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The narrative chronicles de Foucauld''s extensive exploration of Morocco, during a time when European interest in the region was growing yet fraught with danger. The exploration presents not only geographical observations but also insights into the local cultures, as he notably undertook the journey disguised as a Jew to navigate the complexities of Moroccan society.  The opening of the text introduces us to de Foucauld before he begins his journey, expressing gratitude towards those who assisted him. He reflects on his preparations and the challenges ahead, including the need for secrecy and subterfuge to safely navigate through the politically unstable and culturally diverse regions of Morocco. As he sets out from Tanger to Tétouan, he describes the landscape, the agricultural richness of the valleys, and the contrasting societal dynamics he encountered, setting the stage for his detailed explorations and the many interactions with local populations throughout his travels. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75296,500,'https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reconnaissance_au_Maroc',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75296,500,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75296,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75296,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75297,520,'"Reconnaissance au Maroc, 1883-1884 (Atlas)" by Charles de Foucauld is a detailed geographical account produced in the late 19th century. The book comprises illustrations and maps documenting a reconnaissance journey through Morocco, focusing on the author''s observations and findings during his expedition. It serves as a significant resource for understanding the terrain and cultural context of Morocco during that period.  In this atlas, Charles de Foucauld meticulously documents his travels across various regions of Morocco, accompanied by detailed maps and illustrations. The work features 101 drawings based on his sketches and four photogravures, allowing readers to visualize the landscapes and settlements he encountered. Through these depictions and his descriptive text, Foucauld provides insights into the geography, topography, and cultural elements of Morocco in the 1880s, making this atlas an invaluable reference for historians, geographers, and anyone interested in Moroccan exploration. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75297,500,'https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reconnaissance_au_Maroc',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75297,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75297,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75297,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75298,520,'"Rudin" by Ivan Sergeevich Turgenev is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story begins in a tranquil Russian countryside, introducing us to Alexandra Pawlowna Lipin, a wealthy widow. Through her encounters, the novel explores themes of interpersonal relationships, social status, and the contrast between rural and urban life.  At the start of the narrative, we meet Alexandra Pawlowna, who takes a morning stroll to visit a sick old woman in a nearby village while accompanied by a young servant. Her gentle character is revealed as she tends to the needs of the old woman, showing compassion and concern. We also see interactions with fellow villagers, including Michael Michailitsch and Pandalewski, which further develop Alexandra''s social circle. The introduction of Rudin, a well-educated man who appears to contrast with the other characters, hints at future discussions on idealism, social reform, and personal ambition that will unfold as the story progresses. His presence is anticipated to impact Alexandra and the dynamics within their social group. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75298,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudin',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75298,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75298,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75299,520,'"A travers la Russie boréale" by Charles Rabot is a travel narrative written in the late 19th century. This work chronicles an exploration through the northern regions of Russia, focusing on various ethnic groups and natural landscapes as the author embarks on a journey filled with historical and ethnographic observations. Rabot''s intent is to document his experiences and encounters while studying the unique populations residing in these remote areas.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage for the author''s expedition from St. Petersburg to Kazan, highlighting his longing for exploration after a period of inactivity. It describes the grandeur of the Russian landscapes, particularly the sweeping expanses of the Vologda and Volga regions, and introduces the indigenous communities, such as the Finnois and Tatars, with their distinct cultures and histories. Rabot notes the contrasts between the moderning influences of Russian civilization and the ancient traditions that persist among the indigenous peoples, establishing a backdrop for the rich ethnographic and ecological studies that follow in his journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75299,500,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75299,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75299,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75300,520,'"Manners for the Metropolis: An Entrance Key to the Fantastic Life of The 400" by Francis W. Crowninshield is a satirical guide on etiquette and social conduct in the early 20th century, specifically targeting the wealthy elite of society, often referred to as "the 400." Written in the early 1900s, this book serves as a humorous commentary on the intricate and often absurd rules that govern social interactions, including conversations, dinners, dances, and other social events typical of that era. The likely topic revolves around the comical complexities of navigating society to fit in with the upper class.  The book offers an array of tongue-in-cheek advice on how to conduct oneself in various social situations, combining wit with keen observations of the norms of high society at the time. It covers everything from attending a country house party and the importance of timely bathing to intricacies of conversation and the etiquette of dining, including how to graciously decline an invitation. Crowninshield illustrates the absurdities of polite society, where one''s social standing can depend on trivial factors like a motor car''s make or attendance at exclusive events. This whimsical portrayal leaves readers both entertained and reflective on the rules of engagement within affluent social circles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75300,500,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75300,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75300,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75301,520,'"De verdwijn-machine" by Kees Valkenstein is a novel likely written in the mid-20th century. The story revolves around Professor Wells, who invents a mysterious machine capable of making objects invisible, stirring curiosity and skepticism among the public. As his device gains attention, a significant part of his invention disappears, leading him on a quest to reclaim it.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the aftermath of a world war as people return to normal life, with an emphasis on innovation. Professor Wells''s invention is showcased, but it soon becomes a point of intrigue when half of it goes missing. We also meet the Bruggemans family, who are vacationing in the Veluwe and include a curious boy named Koen. While exploring the woods, Koen discovers a mysterious box containing the remains of the disappear machine, subsequently experiencing the astonishing effects of invisibility, both with objects and his interactions with his friend Piet. The opening sets up a blend of adventure and mystery surrounding the machine''s capabilities and the adventures that will unfold. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75301,500,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75301,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75301,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75302,520,'"Dyes and Dyeing" by Charles E. Pellew is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book focuses on the art and science of dyeing textiles, exploring historical methods, modern dyestuffs, and practical instructions for amateur craftsmen. It aims to provide accessible information for individuals interested in hand-dyeing, contrasting traditional practices with advancements in chemical dyes.  The opening of the book provides a context for its purpose, detailing the author''s motivation stemming from his experience teaching dyeing principles to craftspeople engaged in hand-weaving. Pellew underscores the superiority and diversity of modern dyes compared to traditional methods, highlighting the need for straightforward, practical instructions that enable amateur dyers to achieve colorful and lasting results without the often tedious processes of the past. The introduction sets a tone of encouragement, expressing hope that the content will inspire budding textile artists and enrich their understanding of dyeing as a craft. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75302,500,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75302,439);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75302,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75303,520,'"Stentor: or, The press of to-day and to-morrow" by David Ockham is a critical examination of the role and influence of the press, written in the late 1920s. This book can be categorized as a socio-political commentary or critique that explores the evolution and implications of journalism and media in the context of society. It discusses the transformation of newspapers from mere information sources to instruments designed to manipulate public opinion, emphasizing the consolidation of press ownership and the resultant impact on democracy and free speech.  In "Stentor," Ockham delves into the historical evolution of the newspaper, tracing its roots back thousands of years and highlighting its significance in shaping public discourse. He argues that the press, dominated by a handful of powerful figures, often prioritizes sensationalism and profit over integrity and truth. The author critiques the tendency of modern journalism to cater to mass preferences for superficial content at the expense of deeper, substantive reporting. Through various chapters, Ockham addresses the perils of "Trustification," where large media combines increasingly control public opinion, ultimately raising concerns about the impact on democracy and the ethical responsibilities of the press. The book presents a call for a rejuvenation of independent journalism as a necessary counter to the monopolistic tendencies of the modern press landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75303,500,'Reading ease score: 44.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75303,454);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75303,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75304,520,'"The House Without Windows & Eepersip''s Life There" by Barbara Newhall Follett is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young girl named Eepersip who feels a profound sense of loneliness despite the beauty surrounding her, prompting her to embark on a journey of self-discovery and adventure into the wilderness. The narrative captures her interactions with nature as she explores the world, showcasing her deep connection to the environment and the creatures within it.  The beginning of the novel introduces Eepersip, a little girl living with her parents in a quaint cottage at the foothills of Mount Varcrobis. Feeling lonely, she convinces her family to create a beautiful garden, yet her yearning for freedom drives her to venture into the woods by herself. As she explores the flora and fauna, she feels a sense of joy and wonder, finding companionship in the wildlife, particularly a doe and her fawn. However, as she grows more distant from her home, her parents become increasingly worried, launching a search for their adventurous daughter, unaware of the magical world Eepersip has discovered. The vivid descriptions of nature set the stage for both Eepersip''s journey and the challenges she may face as she grapples with her desire for independence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75304,500,'Reading ease score: 79.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75304,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75304,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75305,520,'"Kokouksesta palattua: Yksinäytöksinen kuvaus" by Väinö Kataja is a one-act play written in the early 20th century, likely in the 1900s. This work revolves around the themes of education and societal progress within a rural Finnish community, reflecting the tensions between traditional views and modern ideals. The play showcases the struggle for support of a folk high school, a concept that seeks to uplift the community through education.  The story is set in the home of Valmari, the protagonist, and involves several key characters, including his daughter Hanna, who is deeply invested in the success of the folk high school and supports the ideas of Perälän Ville, a young man advocating for progress. The action unfolds around a town meeting where old-fashioned views clash with the hopes of the younger generation. Hanna''s mother, Eeva-Priita, represents the resistance to change, worried about marrying her daughter to a prosperous but conservative farmer, Herralan Kustaa. The play captures the dynamics of familial relationships, generational conflict, and the broader societal implications of education, culminating in Ville''s resolution to prove that the ideals he gained from his studies do not alienate him from hard work and community values. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75305,500,'Reading ease score: 55.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75305,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75305,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75306,520,'"Kultainen lyyra: Katkelmia naisylioppilaan elämästä" by Maila Talvio is a semi-autobiographical novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers on Helmi Ranta, a young woman who has recently graduated and is preparing for her summer celebration, an event filled with both joy and anxiety about her future. It explores themes of youth, gender roles, and the transition from home to the broader world of academia and society.  The opening of the novel depicts a festive morning at Helmi Ranta''s home as she and her family prepare for her graduation ceremony. The atmosphere is lively, marked by anticipation of both guests and the arrival of a ship carrying the local student society, indicating Helmi''s recognition in her community. As Helmi grapples with her excitement and the expectations surrounding her upcoming changes—both personal and societal—she reflects on relationships, especially her feelings for her childhood friend Heikki. This initial segment sets the stage for the exploration of Helmi’s journey through her education, friendships, and budding adulthood against the backdrop of early 20th-century Finnish society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75306,500,'Reading ease score: 44.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75306,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75306,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75307,520,'"The Crow''s Inn Tragedy" by Annie Haynes is a suspenseful murder mystery novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative revolves around the unsettling events surrounding the death of a respected solicitor, Mr. Luke Bechcombe, whose mysterious demise draws in various characters connected through law, family, and personal struggles. Key figures include the clergyman, Rev. James Collyer, who seeks assistance for his troubled son Tony, and Bechcombe''s secretary, Cecily Hoyle, whose interactions with other characters hint at deeper connections and hidden motives.  The opening of the novel introduces the somber atmosphere of Messrs. Bechcombe and Turner''s law offices, setting the stage for the tension to unfold. Rev. Collyer visits the office to discuss his son’s difficulties after the war, which establishes personal stakes amid the legal framework. Their conversation touches on family dynamics and financial troubles, which are further complicated by a shocking revelation: Bechcombe’s death is discovered to be a murder rather than a natural event. As the narrative progresses, we see a tangled web of relationships, secrets, and motives, which foreshadows the intricate investigation that will follow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75307,500,'Reading ease score: 84.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75307,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75308,520,'"La pena de mort" by Gabriel Alomar is a philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. This non-fiction book explores the concept of capital punishment within the framework of social justice and morality. Alomar engages deeply with the historical context and ideological implications of the death penalty, arguing against its justification and the societal implications it carries.  In his exploration, Alomar presents a compelling critique of capital punishment as a form of state-sanctioned violence and vengeance. He argues that the death penalty is not only a violation of human rights but also a ritualistic act deeply intertwined with societal and religious traditions. Throughout the text, he discusses the psychological and moral ramifications of the death penalty, including its effects on families of the condemned and society as a whole. Alomar presents a vision where the abolition of capital punishment could pave the way for a more humane and morally just society, advocating for a re-evaluation of justice that emphasizes rehabilitation over retribution. His poignant reflections challenge readers to reconsider the ethics of state-sanctioned executions and the underlying motives behind them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75308,500,'Reading ease score: 46.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75308,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75308,457);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75309,520,'"Paul Ralston" by Mary Jane Holmes is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story introduces us to the character of Miss Phebe Hansford, a long-time resident of Oak City, who observes the arrival of summer visitors and reflects on her life and the changing times around her. The novel explores her relationships and the community dynamics, particularly focusing on Paul Ralston, a young man who has returned home after traveling abroad, and his connection with Miss Hansford, highlighting themes of friendship, change, and traditional values.  At the start of the novel, we meet Miss Hansford as she anticipates the arrival of summer guests in Oak City, hoping for a profitable season. While she watches the boat come in, her thoughts drift to her past and her family, revealing her nostalgia and strong opinions about the modern changes in her community. She eagerly observes Paul Ralston, a favored friend from her past, who unexpectedly appears, sparking memories and deeper reflections about life, her family, and the changes in society. As conversations unfold, Miss Hansford''s character is established—she is practical yet sentimental, with a strong moral compass and a critical view of the evolving fashions and behaviors of the people around her. Their interactions set the stage for the relationships and conflicts that will develop throughout the story, particularly in relation to Paul’s engagement to Clarice Percy and Miss Hansford''s opinions about the characters within her world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75309,500,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75309,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75309,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75310,520,'"The Secret of the Caves" by Franklin W. Dixon is a mystery novel written in the early 20th century. This adventure follows the Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, as they embark on a summer trip filled with exploration and intrigue, while facing various challenges and uncovering secrets connected to a missing professor and suspicious occurrences in the caves along the coastline.   At the start of the story, Frank and Joe Hardy, known for their sleuthing skills, are enjoying a day on Barmet Bay when they witness a dramatic rescue of a woman who jumped overboard from a yacht during an explosion. This unexpected event leads them to assist Miss Evangeline Todd, who urgently needs to see their father, the renowned detective Fenton Hardy, to discuss her missing brother, Professor Todham Todd. The opening chapters set the stage for the boys'' subsequent adventure as they prepare to investigate the mysterious occurrences in the caves, navigating personal challenges, weather-related obstacles, and a budding mystery that promises excitement along the way. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75310,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Secret_of_the_Caves',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75310,500,'Reading ease score: 84.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75310,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75310,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75311,520,'"Petúr meg a dinnye és más 30 humor" by Andor Gábor is a collection of humorous pieces, likely written in the early 20th century. The work showcases a variety of comedic dialogues and scenarios that reflect everyday life and social interactions, perhaps with a satirical edge. The characters engage in witty banter and comedic misunderstandings, capturing the essence of humor in mundane situations.  At the start of the collection, readers are introduced to a lively exchange between a couple discussing a single sárgadinnye (yellow melon) on their dining table. The conversation is filled with playful sarcasm and wordplay as the husband and wife banter over the melon’s origins and its potential "nationality." This humorous dialogue sets the tone for the work, showcasing the author’s skill in creating lively and engaging interactions that blend humor with relatable everyday situations, making it an enjoyable read for those who appreciate lighthearted, witty stories. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75311,500,'Reading ease score: 69.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75311,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75311,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75312,520,'"Grundzüge der Paläontologie (Paläozoologie). 2. Abteilung: Vertebrata" by Zittel is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work offers a comprehensive overview of vertebrate paleontology, focusing on the structure, evolution, and classification of vertebrates, including fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. It is designed to serve as a foundational textbook on the subject, synthesizing complex information for students and enthusiasts of paleontology.  The opening of the text begins with the author''s notes on transcription conventions used throughout the manuscript, suggesting a detailed and scholarly approach to the work. The preface outlines the initial aim of the author to create an accessible textbook that evolved into a comprehensive multivolume handbook due to the enormous amount of research and ongoing discoveries in the field. Zittel emphasizes the need to address rapid advancements in paleontology by providing a structured system that reflects both morphological and phylogenetic perspectives. The text further alludes to significant discoveries that have necessitated continuous updates in vertebrate classifications, illustrating the dynamic nature of the science. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75312,500,'Reading ease score: 58.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75312,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75312,487);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75313,520,'"Emmanuel Appadocca; or, Blighted Life" by Maxwell Philip is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative revolves around the themes of slavery and the exploits of buccaneers, framed against the backdrop of Trinidad and the Gulf of Paria. The story introduces characters such as Emmanuel Appadocca and his mulatto companion, who experience the harsh realities of life in the Caribbean while delving into their own quests for freedom and identity.  The opening of the novel sets a vivid scene in the Gulf of Paria, where a fishing boat and an Indian canoe float in a tranquil morning haze. The master fisherman, of mixed heritage, observes the canoe''s occupants and engages his crew in light-hearted banter about the indigenous people. This peaceful moment is soon disrupted, as the canoe, harboring an unexpected threat, gives chase to the fishing boat. The master fisherman and his men find themselves drawn into a web of intrigue as they encounter individuals who are far from what they initially appear. The stark contrast between the serene beauty of the setting and the lurking dangers hints at the complexities and darker themes that will unfold in their journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75313,500,'Reading ease score: 61.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75313,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75313,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75314,520,'"Emmanuel Appadocca; or, Blighted Life" by Maxwell Philip is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. The story focuses on the titular character, Emmanuel Appadocca, a pirate captain, exploring themes of fate, resilience, and the human spirit. Set against the backdrop of the Caribbean and the pirate lifestyle, the novel delves into the trials and tribulations of Appadocca amidst a turbulent world.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to a perilous situation involving Agnes and a priest as they journey on a small cutter after having been captured. Their odds of survival appear grim as they face the turbulent sea, and tensions escalate among the sailors. The opening scenes depict themes of fear, separation, and impending danger, as the characters grapple with their uncertain fate. Appadocca''s character is contrasted through the priest''s good intentions, providing a lens into the lives of those affected by piracy and the adventurous, yet risky, paths chosen by men like Appadocca in pursuit of fortune and freedom. As events unfold, the quest for survival intertwines with deeper philosophical reflections on destiny and morality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75314,500,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75314,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75314,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75315,520,'"Golo" by Pol Neveux is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows the life of Constant Louvet, known by his nickname Golo, as he navigates the complexities of youth, love, and social expectations in a small village setting in France. Golo''s journey reflects themes of ambition, longing, and the bittersweet nature of growing up.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Golo during a festive fair in his village, where he earns his nickname while performing a dramatic scene from a puppet show. The narrative establishes his close bond with a friend named Cendrine, and their innocent childhood games evolve into a budding affection. As Golo grows, he grapples with the expectations of adulthood, including the pressures of finding work and navigating the intricacies of his feelings for Cendrine, especially as his life takes a significant turn when he is drafted into military service. This opening portion sets the stage for Golo''s exploration of love, ambition, and the societal challenges he must face on his journey into manhood. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75315,500,'Reading ease score: 76.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75315,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75316,520,'"The Fulfilment" by Edith Allonby is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book appears to explore complex themes of life, death, and the human experience through allegorical spirits and characters that embody different philosophies. Central to the narrative is a child named Deborah, who navigates her way through the trials of her family and a spiritual realm filled with meaning and exploration.  The opening of "The Fulfilment" sets a mystical tone, introducing the reader to a stark and cold landscape where spirits converse about the human plight. As Deborah''s family faces hardship and loss after her mother''s death, the narrative delves into Deborah''s life on the farm and her deep affection for her father. With the juxtaposition of the spirits'' discussions and the earthly struggles of Deborah, the initial chapters promise a rich tapestry of exploration into both the supernatural and the mundane. The characters'' complex interactions hint at broader themes of destiny and the impact of circumstances on personal and familial relationships, promising a thoughtful journey ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75316,500,'Reading ease score: 81.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75316,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75316,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75317,520,'"When Shadows Die" by Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte Southworth is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative continues from the previous work "Love’s Bitterest Cup," exploring themes of family, love, and the impending turmoil of the American Civil War. The story revolves around characters like the Earl of Enderby, his sister Mrs. Force, and young lovers Leonidas and Odalite as they navigate their intertwined fates while facing personal challenges and broader societal shifts.  The opening of the novel introduces the Earl of Enderby and his family, who arrive at Baden-Baden, Germany, for what they hope will be a rejuvenating visit. There is anticipation in the air as they reunite with the Force family, who have been traveling together. As characters express their emotions around parting and duty, the story foreshadows deeper separations and connections amidst the backdrop of war. Young Leonidas must prepare to return to military service, setting the stage for unfolding drama as letters from the front and uncertain futures loom over the families. The initial chapters lay the groundwork for both personal and political conflicts, interweaving individual stakes with the impending tumult of the Civil War. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75317,500,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75317,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75317,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75318,520,'"The Duke of York''s Steps" by Henry Wade is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around Sir Garth Fratten, a respected banker, whose sudden and mysterious death prompts questions about the circumstances leading to it. Central to this narrative is Inspector John Poole, who takes on the task of unraveling the truth behind Sir Garth''s demise, potentially entwined with his personal and professional relationships.  At the start of the novel, the reader is introduced to key characters, particularly Sir Garth Fratten and his companion Leopold Hessel during a lunch at the City Constitutional Club. Their conversation hints at the weight of financial and familial pressures, with Sir Garth displaying concerning health issues, culminating in a near-fatal accident after encountering a hurried stranger. Following Sir Garth''s untimely death, his daughter Inez expresses her dissatisfaction with the circumstances and initiates an investigation into the matter, which leads to Inspector Poole''s involvement. This opening sets the stage for a complex investigation filled with interpersonal dynamics, societal expectations, and the veneer of respectability that belies deeper truths. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75318,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Duke_of_York%27s_Steps',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75318,500,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75318,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75319,520,'"Skandinavian metsäsuomalaisten vaiheet" by Väinö Salminen is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The text delves into the history of Finnish settlers in Scandinavia, focusing particularly on their migration to Sweden and the subsequent development of communities in various wooded regions. It highlights the challenges faced by these settlers against the backdrop of socio-political tensions and the natural landscape of their new homeland.  The opening of the work introduces the migration of Finnish people into Sweden, particularly during the late 1500s and early 1600s. It describes the reasons behind their movement, which included the overcrowding in Finland, searching for better agricultural land, and escaping wars and harsher living conditions. Salminen provides vivid descriptions of the early experiences of these settlers as they encountered dense forests and established homes, emphasizing their struggles for survival through farming, hunting, and building new communities. The narrative also touches on their interactions with local Swedish populations, weaving in stories of resilience and cultural identity among the Finnish migrants. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75319,500,'Reading ease score: 30.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75319,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75319,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75320,520,'"History of the Zulu War and Its Origin" by Frances E. Colenso is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book discusses the origins and events surrounding the Zulu War of 1879, detailing the interactions between British colonial authorities and the Zulu people. The author aims to provide a comprehensive narrative that highlights the political and social contexts leading to the conflict.  The opening of the work presents an elaborate preface by Colenso, where she addresses the influences behind her writing, particularly noting the contributions of her father, the Bishop of Natal. She reflects on her motivation to document the Zulu War and emphasizes that despite her lack of extensive qualifications compared to other family members, her commitment to justice and truth drove her to undertake this task. The beginning also introduces the initial tensions between the Zulu people and colonial governance, imperfectly characterized by prior peaceful relations turned tumultuous, setting the stage for the narrative that follows in the subsequent chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75320,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75320,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75320,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75321,520,'"Kuolemaan tuomittu: Kertomus Skotlannin vapaussodan ajoilta" by Fredrik Dentz is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative is set against the backdrop of the late 17th century during the tumultuous times of the Scottish War of Independence, focusing on Sir John Cochrane, a nobleman who grapples with the responsibilities of leadership and the struggles for Scotland''s freedom. The story immerses readers in the conflicts and moral dilemmas faced by its characters, as they navigate loyalty, betrayal, and the fight for national liberation.  At the start of the story, we meet Sir John Cochrane, who is deeply troubled as he walks along the rugged Scottish coast. He encounters a Scottish warrior who implores him to take up arms against the tyrannical King James II, who threatens their homeland. Reluctantly, Cochrane exhibits a mixture of pride and caution, expressing his internal conflict about rallying support for a cause that seems doomed. The opening establishes a tense atmosphere where themes of bravery and the weight of leadership are introduced, setting the stage for the ensuing battle for Scotland''s independence. As the scene unfolds, we witness Sir John''s interaction with the warrior that hints at larger plans taking shape as both men contemplate the desperate need for a united front against their oppressors. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75321,500,'Reading ease score: 40.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75321,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75321,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75322,520,'"Tom Swift and His House on Wheels: A Trip to the Mountain of Mystery" by Victor Appleton is a children''s adventure novel written in the late 1920s. The book features Tom Swift, a young inventor who embarks on an exciting journey with his friend Ned Newton and a mysterious female character, Mary Nestor. The narrative revolves around Tom''s latest invention, the House on Wheels, which combines the comforts of home with the mobility of a vehicle, positioning it as the centerpiece of their adventure.  At the start of the story, Tom Swift turns down a lucrative contract from a disgruntled businessman, Basil Cunningham, whom he suspects of dishonest intentions. This decision prompts a series of events, including the arrival of strange men attempting to tamper with Tom''s new engine and the inception of a plan to visit the enigmatic Dismal Mountain. As Tom prepares for his journey with Ned, eager to uncover the mysteries surrounding the mountain, tensions arise involving jealousy and intrigue, particularly concerning his relationship with Mary Nestor and the unexpected presence of a rival. The opening chapters lay the groundwork for a thrilling exploration of both the young inventor''s mechanical endeavors and the unfolding adventure that awaits them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75322,500,'Reading ease score: 82.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75322,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75322,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75323,520,'"The Grand Fleet, 1914-1916: its creation, development and work" by Admiral Viscount Jellicoe is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The work focuses on the operations and developments of the Grand Fleet during World War I, from its formation at the onset of the conflict until late 1916. Jellicoe, who led the fleet, chronicles the strategic and organizational challenges faced by the Royal Navy while providing insights into naval warfare''s evolving nature during this pivotal time.  At the start of the narrative, the author introduces his background and the circumstances leading to his appointment as Commander-in-Chief of the Grand Fleet just before the war began. He recalls the tense moments as he took command and highlights the immediate need for effective organization and strategy in a rapidly changing naval landscape. Jellicoe discusses the shifts in naval warfare due to technological advancements and strategic necessities, setting the stage for a detailed examination of the fleet''s operations and adaptations throughout the war. The opening portion establishes the historical context and the complexities of naval command, providing readers with a foundation for understanding the subsequent developments in Jellicoe''s account. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75323,500,'Reading ease score: 54.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75323,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75323,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75324,520,'"The Early History of the Hebrews" by A. H. Sayce is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work delves into the archaeological perspective of Hebrew history, aiming to weave together the narratives of the Old Testament with factual findings from ancient civilizations. The author highlights the significance of recent archaeological discoveries that have shaped our understanding of early Oriental history and the Hebrews'' place within it."  "At the start of the text, Sayce lays the groundwork by addressing the question of who the Hebrews were, exploring their origin and the significance of their name. He discusses the complexities surrounding the Hebrew identity in relation to contemporary Near Eastern peoples, illuminating the historical context of figures like Abram and the migration from Ur to Canaan. The opening portion introduces several key themes, such as the intertwining of archaeological evidence with biblical narratives, the historical implications of cultural practices (like circumcision), and the socio-political landscape of the region during the time of the patriarchs." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75324,500,'Reading ease score: 66.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75324,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75324,424);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75325,520,'"The Bellamy Trial" by Frances Noyes Hart is a novel written in the late 1920s. The narrative centers on a high-profile murder trial, specifically the case against Susan Ives and Stephen Bellamy for the murder of Madeleine Bellamy. Through the lens of the courtroom drama, the story delves into themes of jealousy, betrayal, and societal scrutiny.  At the start of the book, the scene is set in a bustling courtroom where a red-headed girl, a novice reporter for the Philadelphia "Planet", is excitedly taking in the atmosphere and preparing to cover the sensational trial. She encounters a seasoned reporter who shares his cynical insights about the nature of the press and the trials, hinting at the darker elements of human nature surrounding the case. As the trial begins, the prosecution outlines the grim details of the murder, creating a vivid picture of the events that led to the tragic death of Madeleine Bellamy. This exposition immediately establishes the tension and intrigue that will unfold in the courtroom throughout the proceedings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75325,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Bellamy_Trial_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75325,500,'Reading ease score: 82.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75325,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75325,454);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75326,520,'"A Few Secrets of the Metallurgist Simply Told" by Gerald W. Hinkley is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book serves as a straightforward introduction to the principles of metallurgy, particularly focusing on the properties and treatments of steel and alloys, making it accessible primarily for lay readers interested in understanding the basics of metallurgical science.  In this work, Hinkley explores foundational concepts in metallurgy, utilizing relatable metaphors to elucidate complex ideas. He examines the processes of hardening, tempering, and alloying while detailing the role of key elements such as carbon, manganese, and tungsten in steel production. The book outlines various types of steel and their applications, revealing how the heat treatment processes impact their properties for use in tools and machinery. Furthermore, Hinkley emphasizes the significance of tool steel in industrial production, illustrating its necessity in the context of wartime manufacturing needs. Overall, this publication serves both as an educational resource and a commentary on the evolving demands of the steel industry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75326,500,'Reading ease score: 54.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75326,475);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75326,437);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75327,520,'"The World of the Great Forest: How Animals, Birds, Reptiles, Insects Talk, Think, Work, and Live" by Paul Du Chaillu is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The work explores the diverse life forms within the Central African forest, focusing on their communication, instincts, and survival strategies. Through observations and imaginative storytelling, Du Chaillu aims to reveal the intricate relationships and behaviors of forest animals, making these creatures the protagonists of their own narratives.  The opening of the book introduces readers to the guanionien, or giant eagle, as he soars above the Central African forest, pondering the art of hunting and the behaviors of his prey, the monkeys. The eagle conveys his thoughts through an internal dialogue, sharing both his feelings of hunger and affection for his mate. The text vividly illustrates the guanionien''s daily life, its strategies for capturing prey, and its understanding of the forest''s dynamics. This enchanting introduction sets the stage for an engaging exploration of the animal kingdom, where creatures communicate, interact, and endure in a relentless struggle for existence in the rich environment of the great forest. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75327,500,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75327,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75327,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75328,520,'"Els vells: Drama en tres actes" by Ignasi Iglesias is a dramatic work written in the early 20th century. This play unfolds in a working-class neighborhood on the outskirts of Barcelona and revolves around the concerns of aging characters, mainly highlighting the struggles and vulnerabilities of the elderly as they navigate societal and familial dynamics. Key characters like Ursula, Joan, and Agustí illustrate the harsh realities of their lives, as they confront economic challenges and relationships.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Ursula and Susagna, who engage in a conversation that reveals their worries about their husbands and the difficulties of aging, especially in a world that marginalizes the elderly. The dialogue paints a vivid picture of their lives, filled with dread about financial instability and the fears that accompany their advancing years. They discuss the upcoming marriage of Ursula''s daughter, Engracieta, to Agustí, while also lamenting their lost youth and uncertain futures. This opening sets the tone for the exploration of themes such as societal neglect of the elderly and the harsh realities of poverty, hinting at the emotional turmoil that will be further examined throughout the play. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75328,500,'https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Els_vells',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75328,500,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75328,463);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75328,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75329,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, Fifth Series, No.…" is a collection of articles and essays covering diverse topics, likely published in the late 19th century. This periodical provides insights into literature, science, and art, with detailed accounts of various historical events, craftsmanship, and societal observations, indicative of the Victorian fascination with progress and exploration.  This particular issue includes a focus on the famed Matterhorn mountain, detailing its climbing history, significant ascents, and tragic accidents that have occurred during expeditions. Additionally, it shares narratives that illustrate the challenges faced by early mountaineers, emphasizing human courage as well as folly in the pursuit of adventure. The text also delves into broader topics such as the conditions of miners in Scotland, highlighting their working lives and the evolution of their circumstances over time. Through personal stories and accounts, the issue paints a vivid picture of both triumph and tragedy interwoven in the fabric of human endeavor and nature''s daunting challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75329,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Edinburgh_Journal',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75329,500,'Reading ease score: 65.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75329,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75329,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75330,520,'"Yleinen Maatiede: Luonnollinen Maatiede ynnä Venäjän valtakunta, Euroopassa…" by Lavus Korander is a scientific publication written in the mid-19th century. The text chiefly focuses on geography and natural science, detailing the Earth''s structure, celestial bodies, and the surrounding regions of the Russian Empire and Europe. It aims to educate readers about geographic concepts and the natural forces that shape our world.  The opening of this work introduces the fundamental idea of geography, explaining that the study of the Earth is not limited to the land itself but extends to celestial phenomena such as the sun and stars. The author discusses the apparent movements of celestial objects, notably challenging misconceptions about the Earth’s motion in relation to these bodies. The initial chapters elaborate on the nature of planetary orbits and seasonal changes, reinforced by historical perspectives on early scientific thought, including references to ancient Greek philosophers and the astronomical contributions of Copernicus. This sets a foundation for further exploration into the Earth''s characteristics and its interactions with the universe. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75330,500,'Reading ease score: 39.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75330,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75330,474);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75331,520,'"The Fireside Story Book" by Maria Edgeworth is a collection of children''s stories written in the mid-19th century. It features moral tales aimed at imparting lessons and values through engaging narratives centered around young characters. The stories include "Waste Not, Want Not," "The Bracelets," and "Lazy Lawrence," each touching on themes of economy, friendship, and personal responsibility.  The opening of "Waste Not, Want Not" introduces Mr. Gresham, a merchant who adopts two nephews, Hal and Benjamin, after retiring to a new house. The boys are raised in differing environments, with Hal exhibiting extravagant behaviors learned from his father, while Benjamin practices thriftiness instilled by his own. Mr. Gresham introduces them to his motto, “Waste Not, Want Not,” highlighting contrasting values that set the stage for their character development. Their interactions—with incidents involving a parcel and string, as well as their experiences with a sprained ankle of a younger cousin—begin to illustrate the lessons of generosity and the consequences of wastefulness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75331,500,'Reading ease score: 77.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75331,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75332,520,'"Christina and the Boys" by Amy Le Feuvre is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around a young girl named Christina, who, after the return of her father from abroad, must confront the arrival of a new stepmother and the complexities of her changing family life. As she navigates these challenges, Christina struggles with her fears and self-image, particularly in relation to her family motto, "Fear dwells not here."  At the start of the novel, Christina is depicted as a sensitive and imaginative eight-year-old who has grown up largely isolated from the world outside her nurseries. Her newfound access to her father''s library opens up a world of stories and heroes, igniting her desire for bravery in the face of adversity. The opening chapters introduce Christina''s internal conflicts about courage and cowardice, especially as she anticipates her father''s return with a new wife and potentially a new brother. Through interactions with her old nurse and new acquaintances—like her friend Dawn—Christina''s adventures and experiences are infused with themes of friendship, loyalty, and the quest for self-discovery. The narrative explores how she copes with her fears and ultimately confronts the idea of what it means to be brave. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75332,500,'Reading ease score: 92.0 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75332,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75332,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75333,520,'"On Dreams" by Sigmund Freud is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This influential work introduces Freud''s pioneering theories on the nature and interpretation of dreams, positioning them as gateways to understanding the unconscious mind and the psychological processes at play in mental health. The text explores the mechanisms of dreaming, including the significance of desire, suppression, and the symbolism embedded in dream narratives.  The opening of "On Dreams" sets the stage for Freud''s examination of dream interpretation, contrasting historical, mythological, and scientific perspectives on dreams. Freud asserts that, rather than being mere nonsensical musings of the sleeping mind, dreams can be analyzed to reveal deep-seated thoughts and desires. He introduces key concepts such as the manifest (the dream as remembered) and latent content (the hidden meaning or desire that underlies the dream), while emphasizing the value of psycho-analysis as a method for unraveling the complexities of our subconscious. Through examples of his dreams and discussions on their significance, Freud begins to illustrate the intricate processes involved in dreaming, foreshadowing the comprehensive analysis that follows in the work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75333,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Interpretation_of_Dreams',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75333,500,'Reading ease score: 56.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75333,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75334,520,'"The Girls" by Edna Ferber is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the lives of three women in the Thrift family—great-aunt Charlotte, her niece Lottie, and Lottie''s grand-niece, Charley. The narrative establishes their individual personalities and familial relationships, highlighting themes related to gender roles, individuality, and societal expectations of women during that era.  The beginning of "The Girls" introduces the three protagonists in a thoughtful and engaging way. We meet the elderly Charlotte, who embodies traditional values, and her vibrant, younger relative Lottie, who struggles with societal norms and yearns for a more adventurous life. Also present is Charley, a progressive teenager who challenges conventions with her modern worldview. The opening chapters delve into their daily lives, personal struggles, and the contrast between generations, setting the stage for a story about identity, rebellion, and the quest for fulfillment within the constraints of early 20th-century society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75334,500,'Reading ease score: 85.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75334,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75334,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75335,520,'"Voittoisa nainen" by Pierre de Coulevain is a novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative revolves around the life and challenges of the main character, Helena Ronald, a woman navigating the complex social dynamics of America, particularly in the art and social elitist circles of New York. As a prominent figure in these settings, Helena grapples with her aspirations and the relationships around her as she prepares for a transformative trip to Europe.  At the start of the story, readers are introduced to Helena, a talented and ambitious woman, who is deeply engaged in the world of art collection and social gatherings. As she prepares for an opera outing, her husband Henrik Ronald''s presence brings a mix of affection and tension, revealing underlying themes of duty and personal desire. The discussions between Helena and Henrik highlight their differing perspectives on science, art, and societal norms, adding depth to their characters as they confront their expectations and emotional connections. The opening sets the stage for Helena’s subsequent journey to Europe, which promises to challenge her views on life, luxury, and her aspirations for personal freedom. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75335,500,'Reading ease score: 33.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75335,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75335,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75336,520,'"Isänmaattomat : Romaani" by Herman Bang is a novel written in the early 20th century." The story revolves around Joán Ujházy, a young boy grappling with loss, identity, and the concept of belonging, as he navigates themes of nationality and displacement within a complex and multicultural setting.  "The opening of the novel introduces Joán Ujházy as he observes the world outside a train window, engaging in a repetitive naming exercise that reflects his childhood innocence and connection to his mother’s language." Through his thoughts, we see glimpses of his mother, Ane, and her influence, filled with moments of singing and familial love, juxtaposed against the looming sadness of her absence. As Joán grapples with his memories along with the cultural tensions of his surroundings, a stark awareness of his status as ''fatherless'' — an outsider — begins to take form, setting the tone for the exploration of his identity amidst a backdrop of national and personal turmoil. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75336,500,'Reading ease score: 52.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75336,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75336,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75337,520,'"An Address to Highlanders Respecting Their Native Gaelic: Showing Its and the Broad Scotch’s Superiority Over the Artificial English for the Family and the Social Circle, and Also for Lyric Poetry" by Archibald Farquharson is a cultural and linguistic treatise written in the late 19th century. The work advocates for the preservation and appreciation of the Gaelic language among the Highland Scots, positing its superiority over the English language for conveying emotional depth, social connection, and cultural identity. Farquharson expresses a passionate desire to see Gaelic taught to children as their first language to foster a sense of pride and belonging to their heritage.  The opening of this address presents a heartfelt plea from the author, appealing to the Highlanders to embrace their native tongue as an essential part of their identity. He contrasts the innate warmth and expressiveness of Gaelic with what he perceives as the artificiality of English, arguing that it is through language that the true essence of Highland culture and emotion is communicated. Farquharson elaborates on the idea that understanding and speaking Gaelic connects individuals with their history, familial bonds, and communal glow, and he laments the decline of this language due to external influences and societal pressures. This introductory section sets the stage for a more extensive discussion on the value of native languages and the impact of cultural pride. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75337,500,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75337,456);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75337,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75338,520,'"The Heiress of McGregor; or, Living for Self" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around Marion McGregor, the titular heiress, as she navigates family dynamics, personal disappointments, and societal expectations in a rural setting. The narrative promises exploration of themes such as duty, ambition, and the struggles of a young woman yearning for a life beyond her immediate circumstances.  At the start of the novel, we meet Marion, who is deeply absorbed in her thoughts as she returns home from school, reflecting on her recent punishment for failing to complete an arithmetic lesson. In her family home, readers are introduced to her grandfather, Hector, and her aunt, Barbara, who play significant roles in her upbringing. Throughout this opening portion, Marion grapples with feelings of vanity and discontent, particularly regarding her educational opportunities compared to those of her peers. The stage is set for her character journey, revealing early tensions and aspirations that will likely drive the story forward. Additionally, an undercurrent of social critique emerges through the interactions between different characters, hinting at broader themes of class and ambition that Guernsey may explore further in the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75338,500,'Reading ease score: 81.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75338,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75338,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75339,520,'"Stories of Charlemagne and the Twelve Peers of France: From the Old Romances" by Rev. A. J. Church is a historical collection inspired by Romantic literature written in the early 20th century. The book recounts the legendary tales surrounding Charlemagne, his court, and his legendary warriors, focusing particularly on the exploits of the Twelve Peers, including characters such as Reynaud and Roland. It juxtaposes the historically notable King Charlemagne with the larger-than-life figures created through medieval romance, showcasing the themes of honor, valor, and feudal loyalty within the context of chivalric adventure.  At the start of the story, King Charles holds a court in Paris during Pentecost, where he expresses his displeasure with Duke Benes, who has offended him by failing to support his military campaigns. He sends his son Lothair to demand tribute, but upon arriving at Aygremont, Lothair is met with hostility from Benes, leading to a fierce battle that results in Lothair''s death. This event incites a series of conflicts, as Reynaud and his brothers rally against King Charles''s wrath and navigate the treacherous political landscape filled with vengeance, loyalty, and cunning. The opening sets up an epic narrative of feudal relationships and heroic deeds, promising tales of valor and betrayal as various parties vie for power and recognition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75339,500,'Reading ease score: 86.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75339,447);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75339,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75340,520,'"Destiny" by G. P. S. is a novelette published in the late 19th century. This fictional work explores themes of identity, betrayal, and the quest for belonging through its central character, Muriel Standen, who navigates her complicated past and the implications of her family''s secrets.  The story follows Muriel as she learns about her true parentage and the troubled legacy left by her mother, Marion Winstanley. After the death of her guardian, Muriel moves to London to pursue a career on stage despite the stigma of her mother''s past, which was marred by her mother’s infidelity and her father''s tragic demise. Along the way, she meets and falls in love with Francis Keene, a successful actor who harbors his own familial struggles tied to Muriel''s history. Their relationship is complicated by the revelation of familial connections that threaten to undermine their love, ultimately leading to an intense emotional confrontation. Throughout the narrative, Muriel grapples with her sense of self and her mother''s mistakes, striving to establish her own identity while facing societal judgments. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75340,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75340,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75340,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75341,520,'"The Dreadful Dragon of Hay Hill" by Max Beerbohm is a fictional tale set in a prehistoric era, likely written in the early 20th century. The story begins with the discovery of a smoke column from Hay Hill, indicating the presence of a dragon, which sends shockwaves through a primitive community. The narrative introduces characters like the brave young girl Thia, who possesses a strong spirit and curiosity, and Thol, a timid boy destined to confront the dragon.  At the start of this captivating story, we meet the curious Thia, who, upon seeing smoke rising from a cave, discovers the danger posed by a dragon that has awakened. The community''s initial reactions range from skepticism to panic as the news spreads about the dragon''s presence. The young Thol, filled with a desire to prove himself, struggles with his self-image while grappling with feelings of cowardice. The opening sets the stage for a charmingly whimsical exploration of bravery, community dynamics, and the challenges of confronting fear in both mythical and relatable ways. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75341,500,'Reading ease score: 89.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75341,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75342,520,'"Tour of the Zero Club: or, Adventures amid Ice and Snow" by Captain Ralph Bonehill is a children''s adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a group of boys in a small town preparing for an exciting winter adventure, filled with toboggan races and camaraderie. The main characters, including Harry Webb and Jack Bascoe, are members of the Zero Club, organized to embark on a thrilling journey that promises fun and friendship, but also encounters challenges and conflicts along the way.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to the thrilling atmosphere of a winter''s day in the boys'' town, as they enthusiastically prepare for a toboggan race down Doublehead Hill. The protagonist, Harry Webb, and his friends face off against their rival, Pete Sully, who attempts to cheat by tying a rope to Harry''s toboggan. The tension escalates with lively banter that defines their youth and social dynamics. As their toboggan races unfold, readers are quickly drawn into the mix of playful competition contrasted with underlying rivalries, setting the stage for an adventurous tale that promises excitement on the icy slopes and beyond. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75342,500,'Reading ease score: 91.8 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75342,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75343,520,'"A Day in Mary Carrow''s School" by Anonymous is a children''s educational narrative written in the mid-19th century. This book appears to be a fictional account focused on the daily life of a young schoolteacher, Mary Carrow, as she instructs her small group of pupils. The book likely addresses themes of learning, kindness, and the importance of being useful and happy in the context of childhood education.  The story follows Mary Carrow as she teaches a small group of children, including four-year-old Harry Linn, in a rural school setting. Throughout the day''s activities, Mary engages her students with lessons in spelling, reading, and arithmetic, while also encouraging play and creativity during recess. Interspersed are lessons on life and morality, exemplified by the story of a little girl named Anne Lyle who learns to be helpful and caring towards others. The narrative emphasizes the significance of being industrious and kind, as Mary uses stories and personal attention to guide her students in understanding their potential to contribute positively to their world, promoting the idea that happiness is tied to being useful to others. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75343,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75343,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75343,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75344,520,'"Household Words, No. 306, February 2, 1856" by Charles Dickens is a periodical journal written in the mid-19th century. This weekly publication showcases a rich variety of articles and essays, reflecting on social issues, culture, and anecdotes, with humor and keen observations that are characteristic of Dickens'' style. The texts explore various topics, such as the humorous quest for the best beef and discussions surrounding current events such as strikes, highlighting the period''s social dynamics and challenges.  At the start of this edition, the author begins with a whimsical, yet passionate piece on beef, personifying it as a sacred institution revered by the English people. Dickens humorously details his quest for the perfect cut of beef, contrasting it with his disappointing experiences while dining in Paris, and positing that British beef is unmatched. He weaves in anecdotes and whimsical observations about society''s affection for beef, revealing both the culinary and cultural significance it holds. The opening sets a lively tone that invites readers into the satirical yet insightful world of Dickens, while discussing broader social themes relevant to his time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75344,500,'Reading ease score: 63.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75344,455);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75344,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75345,520,'"The Process of Gilding and Bronzing Picture Frames" by Isaac H. Walker is a practical manual written in the late 19th century, specifically during the early 1880s. This book serves as a technical guide for artisans and interested individuals looking to learn the detailed processes of gilding and bronzing picture frames, which are decorative arts that enhance the appearance of artwork. The author emphasizes the importance of quality materials and methods to achieve professional results in these crafts.   The book provides a comprehensive overview of the tools and materials needed for gilding and bronzing, along with step-by-step instructions on each process. Walker begins by discussing the history and significance of gilding, followed by a thorough explanation of the necessary supplies, such as gilding cushions, brushes, and various sizes of glue. The instructions are meticulously detailed, guiding readers through every stage—from preparing the frame and applying different coats of size to laying gold leaf and burnishing. Furthermore, it includes insights into bronzing, highlighting the unique techniques and materials involved. Overall, this book serves as an essential resource for anyone interested in mastering the art of picture frame decoration through gilding and bronzing techniques. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75345,500,'Reading ease score: 64.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75345,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75345,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75346,520,'"Muistelmia ja kuvauksia kielitaistelun ajoilta" by F. H. B. Lagus is a historical account likely written in the early 20th century. The work reflects on the experiences of a young student navigating the Finnish education system during a pivotal period of linguistic and cultural struggle. Through the author’s eyes, it captures the challenges of attending university, the significance of language in identity, and the camaraderie among students.  At the start of the memoir, the author recounts his journey to Helsinki after graduating from a gymnasium in Jyväskylä. This journey showcases a blend of excitement and trepidation, highlighting the contrasts between rural life and the bustling capital with its unfamiliar streets and customs. The opening portion introduces the author’s family dynamic, particularly the supportive role of his elder brother, as well as contextualizes the atmosphere surrounding the university, where the influence of recent celebrations and linguistic tensions is palpable. Additionally, the narrative mentions the significance of the first female student to graduate, intertwining personal anecdotes with broader societal shifts relating to education and language at that time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75346,500,'Reading ease score: 21.4 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75346,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75346,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75347,520,'"Sun Dog Loot" by W. C. Tuttle is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in a rugged frontier town, focusing on Sheriff Brick Davidson, whose competence is put to the test as a wave of robberies plagues Sun Dog County. The opening portion introduces readers to Brick and his colleagues, including his deputy Harp Harris, as they confront the challenges of law enforcement in a lawless environment dominated by crime.  The beginning of "Sun Dog Loot" establishes a tense atmosphere as Brick Davidson grapples with recent high-profile crimes, including a dangerous bank robbery and a stagecoach hold-up. Brick''s interactions with the county commissioners highlight the pressure he faces regarding his re-election amid rising crime rates. The narrative is peppered with humor and camaraderie among the characters, especially during exchanges with the quirky Harp and the jocular Silent Slade. As the plot unfolds, Brick''s responsibilities intensify further when he must confront both external threats and political machinations while a professional investigator is brought in to assist with the case. The sense of urgency escalates dramatically upon the tragic wreck of a stagecoach, setting the stage for a gripping story filled with intrigue and peril. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75347,500,'Reading ease score: 93.6 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75347,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75347,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75348,520,'"Address, delivered in Craigie Hall, Edinburgh, February 24th, 1871" by Josephine E. Butler is a powerful address that falls under the category of social commentary and advocacy, likely written during the late Victorian era. This treatise addresses the moral and constitutional challenges posed by certain penal legislations in England, particularly focusing on the Contagious Diseases Acts. It serves as a call to action for those concerned about the implications of such laws on society, especially regarding their impact on women and the working class.  In her address, Butler articulates a deep concern about the threat of materialism and its corresponding impact on moral integrity and individual freedoms. She discusses the dangers of legislation that empowers the state to undermine moral principles and introduces oppressive measures against vulnerable populations, particularly women. Butler seeks to mobilize collective action, emphasizing the necessity of a spiritual revival and community engagement as means to combat these injustices. She calls for a united effort among men and women to uphold their constitution and morals, asserting that effective resistance against oppression requires both vigilance and a strong moral foundation grounded in faith. Through passionate rhetoric and personal anecdotes, Butler makes her passionate appeal for reform, urging her audience to recognize the need for a profound moral awakening to reclaim dignity and justice for all. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75348,500,'Reading ease score: 45.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75348,468);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75348,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75349,520,'"Rambles in Waltham Forest: A Stranger''s Contribution to the Triennial Sale for the Benefit of the Wanstead Lying-in Charity" is a poetic composition authored in the early 19th century. The book blends elements of travel writing and pastoral poetry, offering a lyrical exploration of the natural beauty and social fabric of Waltham Forest in Essex, as well as contemplations on charity and human suffering. Through vivid descriptions, the author paints a picture of the landscape and reflects on the interplay between nature and society.  The book serves as both an ode to Waltham Forest and a heartfelt call to action for charity. The narrative is filled with picturesque scenes that capture the serenity and splendor of the natural world, interspersed with reflections on history and religion. The author also contrasts the tranquil surroundings with the struggles of urban life, invoking themes of compassion and community responsibility. Through his journey, he emphasizes the beauty of both the landscape and human connection, culminating in a poignant message about the importance of kindness and support for the less fortunate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75349,500,'Reading ease score: 71.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75349,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75349,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75350,520,'"The Education and Employment of Women" by Josephine Elizabeth Grey Butler is a substantive social critique written in the late 19th century. This book serves as both a socio-political commentary and a call to action regarding the education and employment opportunities for women. Butler explores the pressing issues women faced during her time, asserting that societal conventions have not kept pace with the changing economic realities of women''s lives.  In her work, Butler emphasizes that a significant number of women—wives, widows, and spinsters—were economically active yet faced debilitating social prejudice. She presents statistical evidence to illustrate the harsh realities of women''s economic dependence and the limited opportunities available to them, primarily teaching, domestic service, and sewing. Through poignant anecdotes and rational argumentation, Butler critiques the status quo, voices the struggles of educators, particularly governesses, and advocates for improved education and employment opportunities for women. Her passionate plea underscores the link between women''s empowerment and societal progress, arguing that educated women would contribute positively to the moral and economic fabric of society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75350,500,'Reading ease score: 56.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75350,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75350,482);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75351,520,'"Won Over: The Story of a Boy''s Life" by Nellie Hellis is a fictional work written in the late 19th century. It recounts the struggles and resilience of siblings Phil and Millie Guntry, who navigate through hardships following the loss of their parents, all while living with their troubled uncle in a difficult London neighborhood. The story captures their determination to survive while fostering hope for a brighter future.  The opening portion establishes a poignant introduction to the lives of Phil and Millie, highlighting their close bond amidst adversity. It begins on a hot July day when Millie excitedly finds her brother Phil, revealing that their kind acquaintance, Miss Crawford, has been trying to locate them. As they converse, hints of their troubled home life emerge: Phil''s disdain for their uncle''s drunkenness, his protective instincts toward Millie, and Millie''s unwavering dedication to caring for their uncle despite his flaws. The narrative sets the stage for the siblings'' journey of love, courage, and the challenges they must confront in their daily lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75351,500,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75351,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75351,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75352,520,'"Das Protistenreich : eine populäre Uebersicht über das Formengebiet der niedersten Lebewesen" by E. Hæckel is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. The work provides an overview of the kingdom of protists, exploring the significance of these simple organisms in understanding higher biological forms and the fundamental nature of life itself. It aims to make the complex subject of protists accessible to a broader audience beyond the academic community.  The opening of the work introduces the reader to the vital role protists play in the study of biology, emphasizing their fundamental simplicity and wide-ranging presence in various environments, from freshwater and marine ecosystems to soil. Hæckel discusses the historical context of protist research, noting the advancements brought about by microscopy in revealing these previously invisible organisms. The author outlines the ongoing debates regarding the classification of protists and their unique characteristics that blur the lines between plants and animals, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of their biological and geological significance in subsequent chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75352,500,'Reading ease score: 52.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75352,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75352,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75353,520,'"Claude Monet; les Nympheas" by Georges Clemenceau is an artistic biography and analysis written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the life and artistry of Claude Monet, a master of Impressionism, focusing particularly on his renowned series of water lily paintings, known as the Nymphéas. Clemenceau aims to capture the essence of Monet not just as an artist but as an inspiring human being whose life and experiences reflect a journey toward artistic aspiration and personal fulfillment.  The opening of the book introduces readers to the philosophy of learning from the lives of remarkable individuals, using Claude Monet as a prime example. Clemenceau reflects on the nature of art and humanity, asserting the transformative power of Monet''s work, particularly his connection with light and nature, as seen in his paintings. He describes Monet''s artistic process and the emotional depth behind his creations, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of the artist''s life and how it shaped his masterpieces, including the iconic Nymphéas. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75353,500,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75353,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75353,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75354,520,'"Suuret haaveilijat: Heidän oppinsa ja kokeilunsa" by Kaapo Murros is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The work explores the philosophies and experiments of three major thinkers of the 19th century: Saint Simon, Charles Fourier, and Robert Owen, focusing on their visions for societal reform and utopian communities. Murros aims to shed light on these oft-overlooked figures and their ideas amid the broader social and economic changes of their time.  At the start of the book, Murros discusses the importance of the ideas put forth by these thinkers, setting the context with a brief overview of 18th century philosophical movements following the French Revolution. He highlights how the revolution spurred new ways of thinking about society and economics, criticizing existing hierarchies and advocating for equality and human rights. The opening portion specifically addresses Saint Simon''s vision of a society where production is organized by the government for the benefit of all, and outlines the disparities he saw in the emerging capitalist society, setting the stage for a critique of utopian ideals versus practical realities. The narrative promises to delve deeper into each thinker''s contributions in subsequent chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75354,500,'Reading ease score: 20.9 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75354,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75354,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75355,520,'"Sophonisbe: Murhenäytelmä" by Lauri Haarla is a dramatic play written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the context of Karthago and follows the titular character, Sophonisbe, the daughter of Hasdrubal, a general in Carthage, as she navigates the turbulent political landscape and her own emotional struggles amidst the impending doom of war.   At the start of the play, Sophonisbe is in her father Hasdrubal''s garden, contemplating dreams and the harsh reality of the present with her companion Helike. Their conversation reveals a sense of foreboding regarding the fate of Karthago, and Sophonisbe expresses her anxiety about the uncertain outcome of the ongoing conflict with Rome. As the plot progresses, threats materialize from various quarters, including the emergence of love interests and the deepening crisis surrounding her fiancé Masinissa. The opening sets the stage for themes of love, sacrifice, and the devastating impact of war, drawing the reader into a historical drama filled with tension and emotional depth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75355,500,'Reading ease score: 54.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75355,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75355,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75356,520,'"Do you believe in fairies?" by Leonora de Lima Andrews is a collection of whimsical fantasy stories written in the early 20th century. The book explores themes of imagination and childhood wonder, featuring various whimsical characters like goblins, fairies, and adventures that reflect the innocent curiosity of children. It taps into the belief in magic and the fantastical elements that often engage the youthful spirit, encouraging readers to cherish and believe in the fantastical.  The stories within the collection are rich with playful narratives and intriguing characters. For instance, one tale features a little girl who runs joyfully, dreaming of flying to touch the clouds, while another follows a fretful child who longs for adventure. Throughout the book, the author presents a variety of imaginative scenarios, such as a giant who becomes despondent after being ridiculed by clams for his gentle nature, and a fairy who awaits a prince''s assistance to regain her freedom. Each story is adorned with enchanting poetry and vivid illustrations of a world where imagination reigns supreme; ultimately, the collection serves as a delightful reminder of childhood''s fleeting but magical moments. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75356,500,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75356,480);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75356,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75357,520,'"L''illustre Partonneau" by Pierre Mille is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book revolves around the life of Partonneau, a character who has returned to Paris after a colorful career spent in various colonial capacities, notably in Madagascar. It explores his peculiar outlook on life and relationships, particularly with women, as well as the contrasts between his experiences abroad and contemporary Parisian society.  The opening of the novel introduces Partonneau as he returns from Madagascar and settles back into his modest Parisian life. He is depicted as a man of intriguing simplicity, dismissing his former high-ranking status with an air of nonchalance. The narrative hints at his past adventures while showcasing his current pursuits, particularly his relationships with women, notably Émilienne, whom he claims to enjoy but whose presence in his life seems superficial at best. His interactions suggest a blend of humor and critique of societal norms, as Partonneau navigates life with an outlook shaped by his unique experiences and practical philosophies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75357,500,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75357,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75357,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75358,520,'"Verzamelde Tooneelspelen en opstellen-over-tooneel, deel 1-2" by Herman Heijermans is a collection of theatrical plays and essays on theater written in the early 20th century. This work focuses on Heijermans'' views and critiques regarding the state of theater and performance arts, reflecting societal conditions and cultural commentary relevant during his time.  The opening of the collection presents the play "Uitkomst," which introduces Thijs Banes, a porter, and his family, showcasing their struggles and interactions in a modest living space in Amsterdam. The dialogue captures the banter between family members and friends, illustrating their everyday lives, discussions about work, and playful exchanges. This initial scene sets the tone for exploring themes such as societal expectations, economic hardship, and the dynamics of familial relationships, providing insight into the struggles of the working class and the impact of their environment on personal aspirations and relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75358,500,'Reading ease score: 87.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75358,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75358,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75359,520,'"The Crime at Black Dudley" by Margery Allingham is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story centers around George Abbershaw, a pathologist who finds himself entangled in a web of mystery and potential murder during a weekend stay at an eerie old mansion called Black Dudley. As Abbershaw navigates his feelings for the charming Margaret Oliphant, he also grapples with the unsettling atmosphere of the house, where past tragedies seem to linger.  At the start of the narrative, Abbershaw arrives at Black Dudley, where he is quickly introduced to a diverse cast of characters, including Colonel Coombe, the host, and several intriguing guests. The ominous atmosphere intensifies with the introduction of the titular Black Dudley Dagger, a historically significant weapon associated with a past murder. The evening takes a dark turn when the Colonel suffers a heart attack, leading to Abbershaw''s suspicions about the circumstances surrounding the man''s death and the presence of blood on the dagger. As the party grapples with the Colonel''s demise, Abbershaw becomes increasingly aware that the tension in Black Dudley runs deeper than mere coincidence, setting the stage for a complex investigation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75359,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Crime_at_Black_Dudley',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75359,500,'Reading ease score: 82.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75359,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75360,520,'"The Human Foot and the Human Hand" by Sir George Murray Humphry is a scientific publication written in the mid-19th century. The book presents an examination of human anatomy, specifically focusing on the structure and function of the human foot and hand. It seeks to illuminate the intricate mechanisms of these body parts, emphasizing their significance in supporting and enabling human locomotion and dexterity.  At the start of the text, the author reflects on the general ignorance regarding human anatomy, despite its importance as the most sophisticated product of creation. He expresses a desire to engage broader audiences by discussing the human foot, which he argues is not only crucial for locomotion but also frees the hand for other tasks. Humphry introduces key principles such as the "division of labor" in anatomy and begins to outline the structural components of the foot, detailing its bones and describing its unique adaptations that allow for bipedal locomotion. This opening serves to establish a foundation for understanding the complex interplay between the anatomy of the foot and its functional capabilities, paving the way for deeper exploration in subsequent chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75360,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75360,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75360,479);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75361,520,'"The Basket Maker" by Luther Weston Turner is a manual on the craft of basketry written in the early 20th century. This instructional book serves as a guide for both educators and students interested in learning the fundamental techniques and artistic possibilities of basket weaving. Through its detailed explanations and illustrations, the book emphasizes the educational value of manual training in the arts and crafts, particularly in relation to developing motor skills and creativity in a historically rich craft.  In "The Basket Maker," Turner outlines various methods for constructing baskets, beginning with foundational techniques such as the weaving of mats and progressing to more complex forms like circular and melon-shaped baskets. The book provides step-by-step instructions, accompanied by illustrations to aid in understanding. Throughout, Turner stresses the importance of precision and attention to detail in the crafting process, noting how variations in materials and techniques can influence the aesthetic qualities of the finished product. By blending practical guidance with artistic encouragement, Turner aims to foster a deeper appreciation for basketry as a significant and accessible form of manual art. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75361,500,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75361,452);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75361,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75362,520,'"Die drei Ostindienfahrer: abentheuerliche Reisegeschichten" by Christian August Fischer is a collection of adventurous travel tales written in the early 19th century. The work reflects on the experiences of Dutch East India traders, particularly focusing on the life and challenges faced by individuals as they navigate the perils of their journeys. This includes elements of maritime struggle, encounters with colonial authorities, and personal turmoil amid the backdrop of foreign lands.  At the start of the collection, the narrative introduces Jacob Haafner, who serves as a second mate on a Dutch company ship destined for India. The opening details his difficult voyage, which is marred by the tyrannical nature of the ship''s captain, leading to a mutiny after the captain''s cruel punishment of sailors results in death. Following the arrival in India, Haafner grapples with expectations, aspirations for a more stable life, and the unfortunate reality of a civil servant role that falls far short of his hopes. The story thus sets the stage for an exploration of his adventures, highlighting themes of hardship, ambition, and the complexities of life in colonial settings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75362,500,'Reading ease score: 82.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75362,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75362,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75363,520,'"The Eater of Souls" by Henry Kuttner is a science fiction short story published in the late 1930s. This tale transports readers to the distant world of Bel Yarnak, where an ominous entity known as the Eater of Souls looms over the inhabitants. The narrative delves into themes of existential dread and cosmic horror, exploring the interplay between good and evil, gods and mortals.  In the story, the Sindara, the ruler of Bel Yarnak, embarks on a perilous journey to confront the Eater of Souls, a being of unfathomable horror that lures souls into its abyss. Despite the counsel of both necromancers and hydromancers, the Sindara chooses to rely on his devotion to Vorvadoss, his god. As he stands at the edge of the Gray Gulf, he encounters the grotesque being, leading to a harrowing battle. Ultimately, in a desperate bid to break the cycle of despair, the Sindara undergoes a horrific metamorphosis, merging with the Eater of Souls. The tale concludes with his tragic descent into darkness, weighed down by the beauty of his homeland that he can never see again, emphasizing the haunting themes of sacrifice and the loss of identity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75363,500,'Reading ease score: 72.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75363,480);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75363,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75364,520,'"Enemies: A Tale for Little Lads and Lasses" by Marian Isabel Hurrell is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative explores familial bonds and the themes of conflict and reconciliation among young children, particularly focusing on two branches of the Rose family. The book touches on deeper moral lessons, including the importance of love and forgiveness, addressing the fictional portrayal of social class differences through the interactions between the cousins.  The story follows the Rose family, specifically focusing on Mrs. Rose and her four children: Hugh, Frank, Ronald, and Elsie, as they navigate challenges stemming from their estranged grandfather, Sir Matthew Rose. Tensions rise when the family''s estranged relatives, the Wilfrid Roses, move in next door, igniting a rivalry between the two groups of children. The main characters find themselves caught up in a playful yet serious "war," dubbed the "Wars of the Roses," as they grapple with themes of loyalty, pride, and hostility. However, as events unfold, they learn the value of forgiveness and friendship, leading to a heartwarming resolution where bonds strengthen and animosities dissolve. The narrative encapsulates the journey from anger to peace through innocence and the genuine desire for connection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75364,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75364,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75364,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75365,520,'"Amurinmaan retki : suomalainen kommunismin koe" by F. H. B. Lagus is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The work documents the experiences of Finnish emigrants who, motivated by adventure and the promise of fertile land, formed a collective expedition to settle in the Eastern Asia region, specifically near the Amur River in Manchuria. The narrative explores the challenges and aspirations of these individuals as they attempted to implement communist principles in their new settlement.  The opening of this book introduces readers to the context of the emigration, detailing the hardships faced by Finns in their homeland, such as famine and economic troubles. It outlines the formation of a company of settlers in 1868 who sought success in agricultural activities and whale hunting. The beginning features rich descriptions of the characters involved, including captain Fridolf Höök and various skilled tradesmen, and elaborates on their motivations and the preparation for their long and arduous journey. It sets the stage for a tale of hope, determination, and the interplay of ideals in a distant land, emphasizing the collectivist spirit that bound the members of the expedition together. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75365,500,'Reading ease score: 39.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75365,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75365,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75366,520,'"Woman''s Voice: An Anthology" by Josephine Conger-Kaneko is a collection of writings reflecting the perspectives and contributions of women during the early 20th century. Compiled and published in the wake of significant social and political upheaval in 1918, this anthology aims to amplify women’s viewpoints, particularly in relation to their roles in society and the fight for equal rights. It features pieces from numerous prominent women, illustrating the multifaceted nature of the feminist movement and advocating for women’s suffrage, social justice, and the rights of mothers and workers.  The opening portion establishes the editor''s intent to gather a diverse array of women’s voices from various backgrounds and experiences to assert their relevance and importance amid contemporary societal changes. It begins with a dedication to women who have worked tirelessly for progress, followed by an introduction that emphasizes the need for women''s perspectives to be heard, especially during times of crisis like World War I. The anthology is described as not merely a literary compendium but as a necessary tool for awakening and voicing the concerns of women who have been historically marginalized. The introduction sets the stage for the contributions that follow, which address critical issues like women''s rights and their impact on society, emphasizing that the collective voice of women is vital for a better future. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75366,500,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75366,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75366,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75367,520,'"Childhood in Literature and Art" by Horace E. Scudder is a study that likely delves into the depiction of childhood across various literary and artistic traditions, written in the late 19th century. The book explores the evolution of childhood as a theme in literature and art, examining its significance from ancient texts to the modern era. Scudder aims to demonstrate how literature for children emerged alongside a growing recognition of childhood as a distinct and vital stage of life.  The opening of the work sets the stage for this exploration by suggesting that the acknowledgment of childhood in literature has only been pronounced since the late 18th century. Scudder reflects on how earlier works often overlooked children as significant characters, focusing instead on adults and their experiences. He discusses the gradual shift in perspectives, noting the increasing representation of childhood in literature, especially prominent with poets like Wordsworth. The introduction promises to consider various epochs, from Greek and Roman literature to English and American texts, providing a historical framework to understand the evolving perceptions of childhood. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75367,500,'Reading ease score: 61.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75367,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75367,426);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75368,520,'"The Delinquent, Vol. IV, No. 8, August, 1914" by Various is a monthly periodical published by the National Prisoners’ Aid Association during the early 20th century. This issue includes a significant article that discusses prison reform, focusing specifically on the experiences of Hon. Thomas Mott Osborne during his voluntary incarceration at Auburn Prison. The overall theme revolves around the psychological and societal implications of imprisonment, highlighting the systemic issues and brutality faced by inmates.  In this edition, Osborne shares his firsthand account of the conditions within Auburn Prison while he masqueraded as a convict named "Tom Brown." He describes the daily life of inmates, revealing the harsh realities they endure—the cramped living quarters, the oppressive atmosphere, and the psychological toll of incarceration. Notably, he illustrates specific incidents of brutality enacted by prison guards, emphasizing the dehumanization within the penal system. Through his experiences, Osborne advocates for practical reforms, including self-governance among inmates and improved treatment, suggesting that such measures can lead to a more humane and rehabilitative prison environment. The content and discussions in this volume point towards an emerging awareness and critique of the prison system, marking a key moment in the history of prison reform. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75368,500,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75368,457);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75368,482);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75369,520,'"The Pyrenees" by Hilaire Belloc is a comprehensive travel guide written in the early 20th century. The book aims to provide essential information for those wishing to explore the Pyrenees mountains, including details on trails, accommodations, and the natural and political history of the region. Belloc emphasizes not only the outdoor adventure aspects but also the cultural and historical contexts that enhance the travel experience.  At the start of "The Pyrenees," the author lays out his purpose and approach for the book, outlining the intricate relationship between the mountains'' physical features and their historical significance. He emphasizes the need for an understanding of the Pyrenean environment, its geography, and the diversity of experiences one might encounter during exploration. Belloc plans to guide readers through an appreciation of the region''s natural beauty while offering insightful commentary on the logistics of travel, such as recommended routes, local inns, and essential camping tips, creating a detailed and practical resource for travelers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75369,500,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75369,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75369,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75370,520,'"David Goes to Greenland" by David Binney Putnam is a narrative travelogue written in the early 20th century. The book follows the young protagonist, David, as he embarks on an adventurous expedition to Greenland with a team led by Captain Bob Bartlett, an experienced Arctic navigator. The work aims to document David''s experiences in a remote part of the world while engaging in scientific endeavors, such as a quest to collect specimens for a museum.  At the start of the narrative, David is excitedly preparing for the Greenland trip, reflecting on his previous adventures and the thrill of exploration. The opening captures the anticipation and preparations involved as David and a diverse crew, including friends and experienced sailors, set sail from New York. It introduces both the challenges of sailing and the unique opportunities for learning and adventure that await them in the Arctic, setting the stage for a captivating tale of exploration, camaraderie, and encounters with nature and indigenous cultures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75370,500,'Reading ease score: 86.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75370,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75370,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75371,520,'"Das Cistercienserstift Heiligenkreuz in Niederösterreich" by Abtei Heiligenkreuz is a historical account likely written in the late 19th century. The book documents the history, architecture, and art of the Cistercian Abbey of Heiligenkreuz, founded in 1135. It offers an exhaustive description of the abbey''s structures, including its church, cloisters, and various art collections, which is a significant aspect of its cultural heritage.  The content of the book is meticulously organized, providing readers with detailed insights into the architectural styles, historical events, and artistic treasures housed within the abbey. It discusses different areas of the abbey, including the church''s Romanesque façade, the Gothic choir, and the impressive organ. The text also reflects on significant relics and artwork, showcasing the abbey''s rich history and spiritual significance. Through its thorough narrative, the book serves as both a guide and tribute to the Cistercian order and its enduring impact on the region of Niederösterreich. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75371,500,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75371,425);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75371,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75372,520,'"Fenella: A Novel" by Henry Longan Stuart is a fictional work likely written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around the character Fenella Barbour, a young girl navigating her identity and relationships in a world filled with expectations and pressures, particularly relating to her love for Paul Ingram, a struggling writer. Themes of longing, ambition, and the trials of unreciprocated affection seem to underpin the story, setting a reflective and emotional tone that invites exploration.  The opening of the novel introduces Fenella as she emerges from the ocean, a powerful image that evokes themes of both vitality and existential reflection. As she interacts with Paul, who is portrayed as brooding and discontent with his literary pursuits, a tender yet complex dynamic unfolds. Fenella''s playful nature contrasts with Paul''s deeper worries about his future, setting the stage for an exploration of their relationship amidst the backdrop of societal expectations. Their conversation reveals underlying tensions about success, creative ambition, and personal sacrifice, drawing readers into their world and emotional struggles from the very beginning. This opening section not only establishes character motivations but also the philosophical themes that will likely play a crucial role throughout the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75372,500,'Reading ease score: 81.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75372,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75373,520,'"Essai d''éducation nationale, ou, plan d''études pour la jeunesse" by La Chalotais is a treatise on educational reform written in the mid-18th century. The work presents a comprehensive plan aimed at improving the education of youth in France, emphasizing the need for a curriculum that prepares citizens for practical professions and responsible citizenship rather than merely academic pursuits. The text critiques the existing educational systems and suggests a shift towards a more civil, useful form of education that involves the study of relevant subjects like history, geography, and natural sciences.  The opening of the treatise outlines the urgent need for reform in the education system, revealing the author''s concerns regarding the ineffectiveness of contemporary colleges. La Chalotais emphasizes the significance of a well-rounded education that includes practical knowledge and moral instruction, lamenting the dominance of outdated methodologies that stifle the intellectual growth of students. He argues that a proper education should be established upon clear principles, operate through sensory experiences, and be relevant to the lives of future citizens—encouraging them to understand their roles in society and the importance of civic responsibilities. The author sets the groundwork for a detailed educational plan that he contends is essential for the overall welfare of the nation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75373,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essai_d%E2%80%99%C3%A9ducation_nationale',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75373,500,'Reading ease score: 57.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75373,484);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75373,445);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (57972,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis-Ren%C3%A9_de_Caradeuc_de_La_Chalotais');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75374,520,'"Mikko-sedän kesäsiirtola" by Osmo Lajula is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. This engaging story revolves around Mikko Mähönen, a dedicated teacher who decides to take a group of boys from his class to a summer camp in the countryside. The narrative explores themes of education, childhood adventures, and the importance of connecting with nature as the boys experience life outside the city.  The opening of the book introduces Mikko-setä and his reflective nature as he teaches third graders at school. These early chapters establish his deep concern for the boys, particularly for his son Pekka, and his desire to provide them with enriching experiences during the summer. Mikko-setä aims to create a summer colony for city children, believing it''s essential for their health and growth. He envisions a summer filled with exploration, learning, and camaraderie as he prepares to take ten boys for a transformative experience in the Finnish countryside. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75374,500,'Reading ease score: 33.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75374,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75374,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75375,520,'"Sen pitkää, sen lyhyttä: Tiituksen pakinoita 1" by Ilmari Kivinen is a collection of humorous narratives likely written in the early 20th century. The work features a character named Tiitus, who shares satirical observations about society, politics, and human nature, often infused with irony and wit. Readers can expect a blend of whimsical storytelling and critical commentary on contemporary issues.  The opening of this collection introduces a whimsical recounting of Chinese politics through the eyes of Tiitus. It begins with a lighthearted exploration of the absurdity surrounding the revolutionary changes in China, particularly focusing on the character Juanshikai, who unexpectedly finds himself as president due to a lack of a traditional emperor. The comedic narrative unfolds as Tiitus describes the chaotic yet humorous reactions of the Chinese populace to political shifts, complete with absurd fantasies involving a misplaced throne and Juanshikai''s reluctant ascent to power. This sets a tone of satire that likely continues throughout the book, offering readers a blend of humor with social critique. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75375,500,'Reading ease score: 41.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75375,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75375,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75376,520,'"Edaville Railroad: The Cranberry Belt" by Linwood W. Moody is a historical account written in the mid-20th century. This book explores the unique Edaville Railroad, a small narrow-gauge railroad that operates within an extensive cranberry plantation, encapsulating the charm of bygone railway culture and its connection to cranberry farming. Moody’s narrative not only questions the fate of small railroads but celebrates the survival of the Edaville, which he depicts as the last of its kind, blending nostalgia with a practical guide for visitors.  The book serves as a guide to the Edaville Railroad and the cranberry bogs it traverses, offering readers a detailed look into the workings of the railroad system, its historical significance, and the life surrounding the cranberry industry. Moody describes the railroad''s operations, including the various engines and cars that make up the fleet and the engineering marvel of navigating the plantation’s terrain. He vividly portrays the experience of riding the Edaville, complete with practical insights about the railroad''s historical context, providing a comprehensive picture of this charming little railway that remains a living tribute to the era of narrow-gauged railroads. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75376,500,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75376,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75376,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75377,520,'"The Life of Henry Labouchere" by Algar Thorold is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This biography explores the life and political career of Henry Labouchere, a prominent figure in British politics known for his radical views and unique character. The book presents an insightful look into Labouchere''s contributions to the democratization of England and his distinct approach to politics, which was marked by an unwavering commitment to principles rather than party loyalty.  The opening of the biography sets the stage by introducing Labouchere''s background, including his French descent and his upbringing during a pivotal time in modern European history. It discusses his early life, shaped by both his family''s legacy and his own original character, highlighting Labouchere''s unique perspective on political ideals and discourse. The author emphasizes Labouchere''s rational approach to radicalism, contrasting it with the often sentimental views of his contemporaries, thereby laying the groundwork for a deeper exploration of his life and the significant events he participated in. This section encapsulates the essence of Labouchere''s character, providing readers with a vivid understanding of the man behind the political figure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75377,500,'Reading ease score: 67.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75377,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75377,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75378,520,'"Needwood Forest" by Francis Noel Clarke Mundy is a poetic work created during the late 18th century. This book serves as a tribute to the beauty and majesty of Needwood Forest, celebrating its natural wonders while also lamenting over its loss to human encroachment and deforestation. The poem captures the spirit of the forest and the rich tapestry of life it supports.  The narrative unfolds in several parts, reveling in the descriptive imagery of Needwood’s lush scenery, its diverse wildlife, and the joy it brings to those who experience it. The verses are imbued with feelings of nostalgia and sorrow as the poet reflects on the changing landscape and the harmful impact of human actions. Throughout the poem, Mundy invokes a sense of reverence for nature while also raising a clarion call against the destruction that threatens this beloved ecosystem. Themes of loss, beauty, and the interplay between nature and humanity resonate through the text, transforming the forest from a mere backdrop into a character rich with stories and emotions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75378,500,'Reading ease score: 76.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75378,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75378,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75379,520,'"Les pirates chinois : Ma captivité dans les mers de la Chine" by Fanny Loviot is a historical account written in the mid-19th century. The narrative chronicles the author''s harrowing experiences aboard a small goélette, the "Indépendance", as she embarks on a journey from France to California, ultimately leading her to the tumultuous waters of China. Loviot recounts her trials at sea, encountering both natural dangers and the cultural complexities of the people she meets along her travels.  At the start of the book, Loviot describes her departure from Le Havre and her mixed feelings about leaving France for California with her sister. She vividly details their experiences on board, including dealing with treacherous seas and the diverse passengers, alongside descriptions of the ports they visit, such as Rio de Janeiro. As the journey progresses, the narrative hints at impending danger and cultural encounters, elevating the tension as Loviot and her companions face not only the unpredictability of maritime travel but the promises and perils that await them in distant lands. The opening sets the stage for a rich exploration of adventure, cultural interaction, and the author''s personal growth amidst adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75379,500,'Reading ease score: 63.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75379,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75379,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75380,520,'"Dimple Dallas: The Further Fortunes of a Sweet Little Maid" by Amy Ella Blanchard is a children''s novel written in the late 19th century. This charming narrative follows Eleanor Dallas, affectionately nicknamed Dimple, as she navigates childhood experiences including school life, friendships, and family dynamics. The story promises to explore themes of loyalty, kindness, and the trials of growing up."  "At the start of the story, Eleanor is introduced on her first day of school, where her shyness leads to feelings of embarrassment and anxiety. Struggling to recite in front of her classmates, she is comforted by her kind teacher, Miss Reese, who helps ease her into this new environment. As the chapter unfolds, Eleanor slowly begins to acclimate to school life, eventually making friends, but she also faces challenges—particularly with her cousin Donald and the societal expectations surrounding her interactions, including her loyalty to her beloved colored maid, Bubbles. This opening sets the stage for Eleanor''s journey of self-discovery and the lessons she will learn throughout her childhood adventures." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75380,500,'Reading ease score: 90.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75380,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75381,520,'"Wreck of the ''London''" by Anonymous is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work recounts the tragic story of the steamship "London", which suffered a disastrous shipwreck in the Bay of Biscay, ultimately leading to the loss of many lives. The narrative emphasizes the heroism and piety displayed by the passengers and crew in the face of calamity, particularly focusing on key figures such as Captain John Bohun Martin and the Rev. Daniel James Draper, who were involved in the ship''s final moments.  The opening of this account details the events leading up to, and the aftermath of, the "London"''s ill-fated voyage. Beginning with the calamities that befell maritime vessels in early 1866, the text quickly introduces the "London" as one of the finest ships of its time, laden with cargo and passengers. As the narrative unfolds, it vividly depicts the crew''s efforts to weather a ferocious storm and the emotional turmoil of those aboard as disaster strikes. It highlights how fear transformed into a desperate search for hope, as religious services are conducted, and prayers are offered in a united show of faith amid mounting peril. The gripping introduction sets the stage for a poignant exploration of human courage, loss, and the impact of tragedy on both a personal and societal level. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75381,500,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75381,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75381,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75382,520,'"Pachín González" by José María de Pereda is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young boy named Pachín González as he embarks on a journey filled with hope and ambition, mixed with an unsettling sense of foreboding. Set against a backdrop of exploration and aspiration, the novel promises to delve into themes of poverty, adventure, and the contrast between rural simplicity and urban complexity.  The opening of the novel presents Pachín as he prepares to leave his home with his mother for the city of Santander on a significant day, one tinged with the sorrow of remembrance for both. Despite his mother’s emotional turmoil and protective instincts, Pachín is driven by dreams of wealth and a better life. They arrive amidst bustling activity, but soon, the story takes a dramatic turn as a disaster unfolds—a fire on a boat leads to a catastrophic explosion. This sets the stage for a horrifying sequence of events that forces Pachín into a frantic search for his mother amidst the chaos of destruction and despair. The contrasts between hopes for a brighter future and the stark realities of life are vividly established from the onset, hinting at the trials that await our protagonist. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75382,500,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75382,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75383,520,'"The Dangerous Inheritance: or, The Mystery of the Tittani Rubies" by Izola Forrester is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Carlota, a talented young singer under the tutelage of the renowned Maestro Jacobelli. It explores themes of talent, ambition, love, and the burdens of artistic inheritance, particularly how the legacy of her famous grandmother, Margherita Paoli, influences her path.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Carlota’s life in New York, her aspirations to become a celebrated singer, and the conflicting dynamics she has with those around her, including funding from the wealthy Ogden Ward and her mentor, Jacobelli. The beginning highlights Carlota''s inner struggles as she grapples with her potential fame while being cautioned against romantic entanglements that could distract her from her artistic journey. Additionally, the narrative hints at a mysterious past related to the Tittani rubies, suggesting deeper secrets and challenges ahead for Carlota as she seeks to balance her artistic ambition with personal desires and familial legacies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75383,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75383,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75383,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75384,520,'"The Patient in Room 18" by Mignon G. Eberhart is a mystery novel written in the late 1920s. The story unfolds within the confines of St. Ann''s Hospital, where an ominous reputation surrounds a specific patient room known as Room 18, notorious for its dark history of patient deaths. The narrative revolves around the main character, Sarah Keate, a nurse who finds herself embroiled in growing tensions within the hospital, including an unsettling dinner party that presages a series of unsettling events.   At the start of the novel, the reader is introduced to the setting and characters during a dinner party hosted by Corole Letheny, the housekeeper for Dr. Letheny, a prominent physician at the hospital. As the evening unfolds amid heavy conversation about money and ambitions, Sarah and her colleague Maida Day are drawn into a sense of foreboding. Following the dinner, a storm brings a sudden blackout to the hospital, and Sarah discovers the unsettling death of a patient, Mr. Jackson, in Room 18. Complicating the mystery, the radium treatment meant for him has disappeared, raising the alarm that foul play is at hand, and thus sets in motion a chain of events filled with suspicion and intrigue, as the characters grapple with the sinister occurrences and their own intertwined lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75384,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Patient_in_Room_18',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75384,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75384,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75385,520,'"Jessie; or, Trying to be Somebody" by Walter Aimwell is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around Jessie Hapley, a young girl navigating her way through a difficult period after her family faces a series of unfortunate events, including her father''s death and her brother''s imprisonment. The book focuses on themes of ambition, resilience, and the quest for a noble character, particularly in the face of adversity.  At the start of the novel, we meet Jessie as she transitions to a new home in Vermont with the Page family after her own family experiences a tragic collapse. The opening sets the stage for her struggles, capturing her sense of loss and homesickness as she adapts to life in a new household. Despite these challenges, Jessie is determined to support her family and continues her education, aspiring to be a teacher. As she engages with her new community, the dynamics among the characters, including her interactions with Ronald, her neighbor, hint at both friendship and conflict, establishing an emotional foundation for the journey ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75385,500,'Reading ease score: 78.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75385,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75385,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75386,520,'"Kertomuksia ja kuvauksia elämästä" by Liina Kataja is a collection of narratives written in the early 20th century. The work explores various human experiences and emotions, focusing on themes such as faith, redemption, and the complexities of personal connections. The stories unfold a variety of characters, including a troubled youth named Georg and a woman named Emma, both navigating their paths through life''s challenges.  The opening of the book introduces readers to Georg, a young man grappling with feelings of guilt and seeking redemption during a time of religious turmoil. He is portrayed in a moment of despair, praying fervently to the Virgin Mary for forgiveness and peace, while a cunning monk observes him, ready to manipulate the boy''s anguish for the church''s gain. After becoming entangled in promises made to the church, Georg loses his identity and treasures. The narrative hints at his internal struggle, setting the stage for a journey of self-discovery that intersects with the lives of others, such as the noblewoman Maria. Their separate paths highlight the pursuit of true peace amidst the chaos of worldly expectations and personal demons. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75386,500,'Reading ease score: 45.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75386,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75386,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75387,520,'"Kohtalon leikkiä" by Liina Röösgrén is a narrative written in the early 20th century. This work unfolds as a poignant exploration of memory, loss, and the intricacies of human relationships. The text features a reflective protagonist who grapples with haunting memories of a past love, intertwining moments of longing, pain, and fleeting happiness as they navigate the complexities of connections with various women.  The opening of the narrative introduces us to a deeply contemplative character, alone in a wintery setting reflecting on a grave he has created for someone significant to him. The protagonist struggles to forget the memories associated with this person, feeling a connection that persists despite attempts to bury it. As memories come flooding back, he oscillates between the pleasure of youth and the deep sorrow that accompanies his reminiscing. He attends a lively gathering, where amidst the festivities, he is confronted with feelings of attraction and the inevitable reminder of his past love, revealing a tumultuous inner world filled with desires, regrets, and a yearning for connection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75387,500,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75387,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75387,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75388,520,'"Sommerleutnants: Die Geschichte einer achtwöchigen Übung" by Walter Bloem is a novel written in the early 20th century. This work unfolds primarily around the experiences of reserve officers undergoing military training, drawing attention to the camaraderie and distinct characters that emerge within this short yet intense period. The narrative likely explores themes of duty, love, and the interplay between civilian life and military obligations, centering on the main character, Martin Flamberg, and his fiancée, Agathe.  The beginning of this novel introduces us to a young couple at a train station, enjoying a bittersweet farewell as Martin prepares to embark on an eight-week military exercise. Their conversation reveals Martin''s insecurities as a reserve lieutenant, contrasted with Agathe''s loving support and concern for his wellbeing, which enriches their relationship''s depth. As Martin reflects on his past struggles and recent artistic success, he becomes increasingly aware of the complexities of his dual identity as both an artist and a soldier. The opening sets a poignant tone, hinting at the challenges and transformations that will occur throughout his military training, while also establishing the emotional stakes tied to his upcoming reunion with Agathe. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75388,500,'Reading ease score: 74.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75388,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75388,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75389,520,'"Principles and Practice of Agricultural Analysis. Volume 3" by Harvey W. Wiley is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This work serves as a manual for the examination of soils, fertilizers, and agricultural products, focusing specifically on methods for analyzing agricultural products. The book is intended for analysts, teachers, and students of agricultural chemistry, providing them with comprehensive guidance on various analytical techniques.  At the start of this volume, the author outlines the different approaches to agricultural analysis, emphasizing the importance of correctly preparing samples and selecting appropriate methods based on the study''s objectives. Wiley introduces the principles of sampling, drying, incineration, and extraction processes, laying a foundation for the detailed discussions that will follow in the subsequent chapters. He also stresses the necessity of relying on the judgment and experience of the chemist in selecting methods, as opposed to rigidly adhering to prescribed techniques, reflecting a broader educational goal for readers who are already versed in analytical chemistry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75389,500,'Reading ease score: 63.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75389,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75389,472);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75390,520,'"Songs of the Shining Way" by Sarah Noble Ives is a charming collection of children''s poetry, likely written during the late 19th century. The book explores the whimsical and imaginative world of childhood, portraying a journey through various landscapes infused with wonder and play. It provides a gentle and enchanting narrative that resonates with the innocence of youth, inviting readers into a realm where dreams and nature intertwine.  The content of the book revolves around the character Dorothy and her adventures with friends Jimmy and Alice as they traverse the metaphorical "Shining Way." Through playful verses, the children engage in various activities, such as exploring meadows, embarking on imaginary voyages, and encountering enchanting creatures like butterflies and dragonflies. The poems evoke vivid imagery, reflecting the joys and sorrows of childhood, including the discovery of nature’s beauty and the bittersweet moments of growth. Each whimsical tale captures the essence of youth, celebrating the magic found in everyday experiences and illustrating the universal journey from innocence to maturity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75390,500,'Reading ease score: 85.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75390,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75390,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75391,520,'"Ocellus Lucanus on the Nature of the Universe" is a philosophical treatise likely written during the ancient classical period. This work presents an exploration of the nature of the universe and delves into the philosophical implications of existence, drawing from ancient thinkers such as Plato and Aristotle. The text reflects on the universe''s timelessness and ungenerated nature, affirming its perpetuity against contrary notions of creation and dissolution.  The opening of this treatise outlines Ocellus Lucanus''s assertions regarding the universe''s indestructibility and eternal existence. He argues that if the universe had a beginning, it could not perpetually exist, asserting that the universe is a whole that requires no external factor for its existence. Through a series of logical deductions, he reinforces the idea that all components of the universe maintain an inherent harmony, emphasizing the stability and self-sufficiency of the cosmos. Furthermore, the text sets a philosophical tone that invites readers to contemplate the nature of existence and the principles governing the cosmos, foreshadowing a deep inquiry into the relationships between the divine, nature, and humanity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75391,500,'Reading ease score: 52.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75391,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75391,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75392,520,'"The Wonders of Radium" by Maynard Shipley is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This book explores the properties, applications, and significance of radium, a revolutionary element discovered by Marie Curie. The narrative delves into both the practical and theoretical aspects of radium, exemplifying its applications in various fields, including medicine, geology, and industrial uses.  The content of the book provides a comprehensive overview of radium’s discovery, its radioactive properties, and how it has transformed scientific understanding. Shipley discusses the historical context of radium''s use, particularly its efficacy in cancer treatment and other medical conditions. The author explains complex concepts about the radioactive decay of radium, the sources of radium, and the processes involved in its extraction. Furthermore, the book estimates the age of the Earth through radioactivity and highlights various innovative applications of radium, from illuminating watches to aiding in the growth of plants. Overall, "The Wonders of Radium" paints a picture of an element that captivated both the scientific community and the public, underlining its potential and challenges at the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75392,500,'Reading ease score: 49.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75392,475);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75392,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75393,520,'"Was I Right?" by Mrs. O. F. Walton is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around a young woman named May who faces significant life choices following the death of her father, leaving her and her half-sister Maggie orphaned. As May contemplates her future, two letters she receives create a dilemma regarding her possible employment as a companion and her feelings towards her childhood friend Claude, who has recently returned home but exhibits troubling views on faith.  At the start of the novel, May reflects on her life and the emotional turmoil of having to leave her childhood home. She recalls her childhood with her sister and her friends in their quaint garden, juxtaposed against her current plight of financial hardship. As she grapples with the decisions laid before her through the letters from her old governess and Claude, the layers of her past influence her heart''s choices. May''s struggle is not only about finding a means to support herself but also about her evolving relationship with Claude, who has become a different man, embracing uncertainties about faith that challenge May''s own beliefs. This opening sets the stage for her journey of self-discovery, love, and moral conviction. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75393,500,'Reading ease score: 84.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75393,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75393,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75394,520,'"The Young Naval Captain: The War of All Nations" by Captain Ralph Bonehill is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book presents an imaginative tale set in the near future, outlining a fictional global conflict. It focuses on the protagonist, Oscar Pelham, a young inventor and naval officer, who plays a crucial role in defending the United States against a coalition of foreign powers.  The opening of the novel introduces the tense atmosphere following the declaration of war against multiple nations, highlighting the protagonist''s efforts to construct a powerful submarine, the Holland XI. The narrative starts with Oscar and his friend discussing the implications of the impending conflict and the necessity of completing their warships under a tight deadline. As the story unfolds, we see Oscar''s ambition and intellect as he works on innovative designs while grappling with themes of loyalty, bravery, and the unforeseen challenges of warfare. The setting is a mix of factual advancement and speculative technology, painting a vibrant picture of a future where naval power reigns supreme. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75394,500,'Reading ease score: 82.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75394,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75394,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75395,520,'"The Racer Boys on the Prairies: The Treasure of Golden Peak" by Clarence Young is a novel written in the early 20th century. This story follows two young brothers, Frank and Andy Racer, as they navigate the challenges of school life at Riverview Hall while also delving into a mystery involving a new classmate, Billy Chase, and the potential treasure hidden at Golden Peak. The novel is filled with adventure, camaraderie, and the excitement of youth, centered around the Racer boys and their friends.  At the start of the book, we find the Racer boys returning to school after vacation, quickly reintegrating into the social dynamics of their boarding school. Billy Chase is introduced as a somewhat enigmatic newcomer, stirring curiosity among his classmates due to his mysterious demeanor and past. After an incident where Billy is attacked and nearly robbed, the Racer boys come to his aid, forming a bond with him. The intrigue deepens as they learn about Golden Peak and the potential treasure, setting the stage for their unfolding adventures filled with excitement, friendship, and enterprise as they decide to help Billy navigate his challenges while uncovering the mysteries surrounding his uncle''s business. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75395,500,'Reading ease score: 92.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75395,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75395,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75396,520,'"Der Hafen" by Else Rabe is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story unfolds around the ambitious project of building a modern harbor as it explores the intertwining lives of various characters against the backdrop of industrial development. Central to the narrative are Joachim Becker, the young director of the harbor project, and his wife Adelheid, who find themselves navigating personal and professional challenges as the harbor takes shape.  The opening of the novel introduces us to a significant day marked by the ceremonial groundbreaking for the harbor, which draws various characters, including the city''s mayor, industrialists, and the press. We see Joachim Becker, consumed by the demands of his role, displaying a mix of ambition and anxiety as his wife and family make their presence felt. The chapter also hints at tension between personal relationships and the professional world, particularly through the interactions between Joachim, Adelheid, and her relatives. The atmosphere is steeped in a sense of anticipation for the harbor''s potential, while underlying conflicts hint at deeper issues that the characters will face as the story unfolds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75396,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75396,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75396,437);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75397,520,'"Der Skorpion. Band 1" by Anna Elisabet Weirauch is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the troubled life of Melitta Rudloff, a girl with a complicated background, who struggles with her identity and relationships in a world filled with societal expectations and personal ambitions. The themes of love, loss, and the quest for one''s place in society are central to Melitta''s journey, making it a compelling exploration of human emotions and societal constraints.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Melitta, who is characterized by her fascination with the outcasts and misfits of society. Through the stories of her childhood and the relationships with various characters, including her governess and her aunt, we witness her budding complexities and troubled emotions. Melitta exhibits a desire for connection and love, yet is often overshadowed by feelings of jealousy and inadequacy, particularly in her interactions with Olga Radó, who enters her life like a whirlwind, stirring both admiration and envy within her. This opening sets the tone for a narrative rich in psychological depth, exploring Melitta''s internal conflicts as she navigates the tumultuous waters of adolescence and longing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75397,500,'Reading ease score: 84.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75397,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75397,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75398,520,'"Les Vagabonds" by Maksim Gorky is a novel written in the late 19th century. This work delves into the lives of the marginalized and the outcasts of society, exploring their struggles and philosophies through vivid storytelling. The opening introduces Variously characterized individuals, particularly focusing on the main characters Vassili and his son Iakov, as well as Malva, who share a tense yet familiar relationship amidst the backdrop of a fishing village.  At the start of "Les Vagabonds," the scene is set on a sun-drenched beach where Vassili, the guardian of a fishing area, anticipates the arrival of his beloved Malva. The narrative captures Vassili''s emotions and the joy of their reunion, emphasizing his yearning for connection despite internal conflicts about his life and his estranged son. As Iakov returns home after years away, the complexities of familial duties and individual aspirations emerge through poignant interactions between the characters, hinting at deeper issues related to identity, belonging, and the weight of past choices as they come together in a setting filled with both love and tension. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75398,500,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75398,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75398,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75399,520,'"The Science of Beauty, as Developed in Nature and Applied in Art" by D. R. Hay is a scientific publication written in the mid-19th century. This work explores the principles of beauty, drawing on natural phenomena and their application in the arts, particularly through a mathematical lens. Hay posits that beauty is governed by certain universal laws, emphasizing the connection between artistic elements and mathematical harmony.  At the start of "The Science of Beauty," the author outlines his intention to clarify the scientific basis for aesthetic principles, distinguishing between mere imitation of nature and a deeper understanding of beauty''s fundamental laws. He critiques contemporary artistic practices that prioritize imitation over the principles of form and proportion derived from nature''s harmony. Through a series of discussions, Hays introduces various topics such as the harmonic law of nature and its applications in musical and visual arts, indicating a systematic approach to understanding and applying beauty in art. Hay aims to provide readers with a clear framework to better understand and appreciate the aesthetic value in both natural forms and artistic creations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75399,500,'Reading ease score: 48.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75399,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75399,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75400,520,'“The Boys of Columbia High on the Diamond: Or Winning Out by Pluck” by Graham B. Forbes is a fictional work aimed at a young adult audience, likely written in the early 20th century. This book follows the adventures and sportsmanship of a high school baseball team from Columbia High as they prepare for a pivotal game against their rivals, Bellport High. It features Frank Allen as a central character along with his teammates as they navigate both the challenges of athletic competition and the dynamics of friendships and rivalries.  The beginning of the story introduces the Columbia High baseball team excitedly traveling on a launch to a much-anticipated game against Bellport High. The atmosphere is filled with enthusiasm, but soon fraught with tension when the launch experiences mechanical issues, jeopardizing their timely arrival for the game. As Frank Allen and his teammates brainstorm solutions, the camaraderie and rivalries among the group surface, setting the stage for the ensuing competition. The narrative hints at underlying conflicts, including possible sabotage and personal stakes, that will unfold as the team strives for victory on the diamond. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75400,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75400,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75400,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75401,520,'"Ponies Past and Present" by Sir Walter Gilbey is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The work explores various pony breeds indigenous to the British Isles, documenting their characteristics, breeding practices, and historical significance. Through a detailed examination of breeds like the New Forest Pony, Welsh Pony, and Dartmoor Pony, Gilbey aims to shed light on the importance of these animals in agriculture and recreation.  At the start of the volume, Gilbey introduces the increasing interest in pony breeding, particularly for polo, and hints at a rich history of ponies in the British landscape. He discusses the early origins of horses and ponies in Britain, noting their low stature and the factors contributing to the diverse pony breeds that exist today. The opening sets the stage for a deeper dive into specific breeds and their lineage, exploring how legislative measures by historical figures like Henry VIII attempted to regulate pony breeding while also highlighting the survival and adaptation of these animals in the face of changing agricultural needs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75401,500,'Reading ease score: 61.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75401,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75401,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75402,520,'"Her Own People" by B. M. Croker is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story unfolds in Homburg, Germany, as it introduces the main characters, Sir Horace Haig and his nephew, Captain Malcolm Haig, who navigate the social intricacies of spa town life. The narrative hints at themes of love, marriage, and social status, particularly as Sir Horace is keen on finding a wealthy bride for his handsome but financially straitened nephew, setting the stage for romantic entanglements.  At the start of the book, we witness a lively exchange between Sir Horace and Captain Haig, highlighting their contrasting personalities and the pressures of social expectations. As they stroll through the beautiful surroundings of Homburg, Uncle Horace jovially promotes the idea of Malcolm marrying a wealthy heiress, specifically eyeing Miss Chandos, a beautiful and rich young woman introduced through Madame de Godez, her adoptive aunt. The interactions set up a complicated social dynamic, where class and wealth play crucial roles in relationships, foreshadowing potential conflicts and romantic developments as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75402,500,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75402,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75403,520,'"Aunt Anne, Vol. 1 (of 2)" by Mrs. W. K. Clifford is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around the young couple Mr. and Mrs. Walter Hibbert, who have just begun their married life when Aunt Anne unexpectedly arrives during their holiday in Brighton. This encounter introduces a mix of family dynamics and the contrasting lifestyles of the Hibberts and Aunt Anne as the narrative unfolds.  At the start of the book, the Hibberts are enjoying a tender moment on the pier, cherishing their newfound happiness. However, their idyllic day is interrupted by the arrival of Aunt Anne, who has come to visit her nephew and meets his wife for the first time. As Aunt Anne insists on taking them to meet her husband despite their previous plans, readers see the interplay between familial obligation and the couple''s desire for independence. The opening portrays Aunt Anne as a complex character, combining warmth and authority, and the Hibberts as a couple trying to navigate the joys and inconveniences of family life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75403,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75403,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75403,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75404,520,'"Aunt Anne, Vol. 2 (of 2)" by Mrs. W. K. Clifford is a novel written in the late 19th century. This work follows Aunt Anne Baines, an elderly woman navigating her new life after marrying Alfred Wimple. The narrative seems to explore themes of love, hardship, and the complexities of relationships, particularly as Aunt Anne faces societal judgment and personal challenges following her marriage.  At the start of the novel, Aunt Anne arrives at a modest lodging house in Portsea Place, London, preparing for her new life with Wimple, who is not present. She interacts with her landlady, Mrs. Hooper, demonstrating a blend of social confidence and vulnerability. Subsequently, she visits Sir William Rammage''s estate with hopes of discussing financial matters that concern her living situation. Although she is met with resistance due to Rammage''s illness, a lawyer named Mr. Boughton eventually offers her a temporary financial allowance. As Aunt Anne settles into her new life, she longs for her husband’s presence, indicating a deep emotional connection, despite the hardships they face together, including issues of social standing and financial uncertainty. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75404,500,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75404,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75404,463);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75405,520,'"Kosken tarina: Kolminäytöksinen näytelmä" by Kaarle Halme is a play written in the early 20th century. The narrative revolves around the interwoven lives of several characters, primarily focusing on Vellamo, a painter, and his interactions with Laina, a young girl, as well as other individuals entwined in their community. Themes of love, societal struggle, and the complexities of human emotions are suggested from the very outset.  The opening of the play introduces a rainy summer day in a mountain hall where Vellamo is painting Laina, who serves as his model. They engage in a playful yet profound exchange about storytelling and the hardships faced by different communities, particularly focusing on the contrasting lives of those living on a mountain and in a gorge. As Laina shares her tales of dwarfs and a mysterious figure called the "Day Son," deeper themes of aspiration, labor, and human connection begin to surface. The scene transitions from storytelling innocence to hints of personal and societal struggles as the characters confront their circumstances and relationships, paving the way for developing conflict and exploration in subsequent acts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75405,500,'Reading ease score: 46.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75405,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75405,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75406,520,'"Silmä yössä: Romaani" by Maila Talvio is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story begins with a poignant scene featuring a small girl named Anna and her mother, a pastor''s widow, as they board a train crowded with a joyful wedding party. The narrative introduces themes of sorrow, love, and the complexities of human emotions intertwined with the festive atmosphere surrounding the wedding.  At the start of the novel, Anna is in a weakened state after her father''s passing, and her mother is deeply concerned for her health. They find themselves among well-dressed wedding guests, creating a sharp contrast between their grief and the joyous occasion. As they settle in, the mother reflects on their loss, worried about Anna''s health and her own parental responsibilities. The train ride becomes a backdrop for revealing connections to prominent families, discussions of social status, and an exploration of human relationships, setting the stage for the intertwining lives and events that will unfold throughout the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75406,500,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75406,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75406,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75407,520,'"Tragedy at Ravensthorpe" by J. J. Connington is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story introduces Sir Clinton Driffield, the new Chief Constable of Ravensthorpe, who becomes embroiled in a mystery surrounding a masked ball at the estate, where guests don costumes and masks. As the evening unfolds, tensions mount when criminal activities threaten the safety of the attendees and the valuable collections housed within the estate.  The opening of the novel sets the stage with Sir Clinton Driffield arriving at Ravensthorpe, where he reconnects with old acquaintances and learns about the peculiar local folklore related to the estate, including the enigmatic Fairy Houses. It quickly becomes clear that beneath the social veneer of the upcoming masked ball lies potential for intrigue and danger; Sir Clinton expresses concern about the anonymity of the masked guests and the possibility of crime. As the characters prepare for the ball, personal tensions emerge between the family members, particularly surrounding inheritance and romantic interests, hinting that underlying motivations and secrets may intertwine with the evening''s events, leading to a web of mystery that only the Chief Constable can unravel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75407,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_at_Ravensthorpe',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75407,500,'Reading ease score: 84.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75407,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75407,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75408,520,'"Hiram in the Middle West: Or, A Young Farmer''s Upward Struggle" by Burbank L. Todd is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Hiram Strong, a determined young farmer who arrives in Pringleton to manage the newly acquired Sunnyside Farm after the previous house burned down. Set against the backdrop of rural farming life, the narrative explores Hiram’s challenges and aspirations as he seeks to carve out his place in the agricultural landscape.  The opening of the novel introduces Hiram as he arrives at a quiet train station in the rain-drenched town of Pringleton, expressing his immediate sense of isolation. He encounters the eccentric stationmaster and learns about the peculiarities of the area, including the hermitic Yancey Battick, who lives nearby and is notorious for his peculiar behavior and intense fear of rats. As Hiram journeys to find accommodation, he stumbles upon Battick''s home, where he learns more about Battick''s strange fears and motivations involving a potentially valuable type of wheat he seems to be hoarding. This establishes a foundation for Hiram''s journey filled with agricultural struggles along with the peculiar characters he meets, suggesting a narrative rich with humor, insight, and the spirit of perseverance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75408,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75408,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75408,476);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75409,520,'"Lo rondallayre: Quentos populars catalans" by Francesc Maspons i Labrós is a collection of popular Catalan tales written in the late 19th century. This anthology includes various folk stories that reflect the culture, traditions, and moral lessons inherent in Catalan folklore. The early narratives feature a range of enchanting characters, including brave youngsters, magical creatures, and formidable beasts, each contributing to rich storytelling that captivates readers with humor and wisdom.  The opening of this collection introduces two stories: "Joan de l''os" and "Lo claveller." In "Joan de l''os," a woman faces extraordinary challenges when she becomes the mother of a half-bear, half-human son, who ultimately rises to confront dangers and seek his identity, showcasing themes of courage and love. Meanwhile, "Lo claveller" revolves around three sisters who attract the attention of a prince, leading to a blend of beauty, humor, and rivalry, finally culminating in witty repartee that explores notions of love and perception. Both tales set the tone for the playful and insightful narratives that follow in this charming compilation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75409,500,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75409,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75409,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75410,520,'"The Fatal Three, Vol. I" by M. E. Braddon is a novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story centers around the lives of John and Maud Fausset, a couple whose seemingly happy marriage is challenged by the introduction of an orphaned girl named Fay. The Faussets’ domestic life is further complicated by the social intrigues and obligations of the time, setting the stage for potential conflict and drama.  The opening of the book introduces us to the Faussets as they discuss the adoption of Fay, who is between thirteen and fourteen years old. Mrs. Fausset expresses her concerns about the disruption of their happy family life, while Mr. Fausset insists on bringing Fay into their home due to his commitment to her well-being after her mother''s death. There is a palpable tension as Maud reluctantly agrees, revealing her jealousy over the potential intrusion into their domestic bliss. The scene reflects a rich complexity of emotions, with the sweet naivety of their seven-year-old daughter, Mildred, who looks forward to a new playmate, contrasting sharply with the adult fears and insecurities unfolding in their household. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75410,500,'Reading ease score: 79.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75410,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75411,520,'"The Fatal Three, Vol. II" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century." The story revolves around the intriguing, enigmatic character, Mr. César Castellani, who has captivated London''s social elite while concealing his origins and personal dilemmas. As he navigates through the society, the narrative also delves into themes of love, familial secrets, and the complexities of relationships, particularly in the context of Mrs. Greswold''s troubled marriage, which intertwines with the mysterious past connected to her husband''s first wife.  "At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Mr. Castellani, a charismatic figure who seamlessly integrates into London''s high society, yet remains an object of speculation regarding his past." A recent concert at Enderby Manor highlights his talent and influence, especially over women, including Mrs. Greswold, who is struggling with emotional turmoil linked to her husband''s previous marriage. As Mildred Greswold grapples with the revelation of her husband''s first wife, a young woman named Fay, the narrative hints at deep personal conflicts and societal norms regarding marriage and legitimacy. The opening sections set up an intense atmosphere of intrigue and emotional complexity, laying the groundwork for the intertwining fates of the characters involved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75411,500,'Reading ease score: 79.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75411,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75411,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75412,520,'"The Fatal Three, Vol. III" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written during the late 19th century. This installment continues the story of its characters, delving into themes of love, loss, and the complexities of human relationships. The opening chapters introduce significant new characters, like the tragic singer Maria Castellani, and contemplate the aftermath of critical events from previous volumes, highlighting the struggles of Mildred Greswold and George Ransome.  The beginning of the book sets an intimate tone as we follow Mildred visiting an asylum where disturbed individuals reside, including the once-celebrated singer Maria Castellani. They engage in poignant conversations about their lives and past happiness, painting a vivid picture of Maria''s decline from fame to madness. Simultaneously, we see George wrestling with the consequences of his wife''s tragic death, his despair deepening as he confronts the aftermath of their tumultuous relationship. This layered narrative beautifully captures the emotional depth and complexity of its characters, inviting readers to reflect on the ramifications of love and the burdens of the past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75412,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75412,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75412,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75413,520,'"The Private Journal of Judge-Advocate Larpent, Attached to the Head-Quarters of Lord Wellington during the Peninsular War" is a historical account written in the early 19th century. This journal provides firsthand insights into the daily life and experiences of Judge-Advocate Francis Seymour Larpent, who served under the Duke of Wellington during the Peninsular War. It details his journey to the front lines, his observations of military conduct, and the complexities of being involved in the courts martial of the British army during this significant conflict.  At the start of the journal, Larpent recounts his departure from England and his voyage aboard the HMS Vautour to Lisbon, capturing the challenges faced during his travels, such as cramped conditions and the excitement of sighting Spain''s coast. He shares vivid descriptions of locations, interactions with fellow officers, and the trials of military life, including the scarcity of provisions and the hardships endured in the pursuit of military engagements. The opening also sets up the tone for the journal, blending personal reflections with historical details, as Larpent prepares to delve into his experiences within the larger context of war and the impact of military actions on both soldiers and civilians. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75413,500,'Reading ease score: 73.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75413,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75414,520,'"Vildsomme Veje: Også en kærlighedshistorie / I sommerferien" by Vilhemine Zahle is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around Martha Grüner, a delicate and introspective young woman whose deep admiration turns into love for another woman, Edith Gerner. The narrative explores themes of unrequited love, identity, and the societal conventions of the time affecting women''s relationships and aspirations.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to Martha, a frail and somewhat isolated girl who becomes infatuated with the beautiful and confident Edith during her teenage years. As the two young women develop a friendship, Martha''s feelings intensify, leading her to navigate her own romantic emotions in a time when such feelings could be fraught with confusion and unacceptability. The opening portion delves into Martha''s inner thoughts and struggles, highlighting her contrasting feelings of joy and despair in relation to Edith, foreshadowing the complexity of their relationship as they are bound by societal expectations and personal challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75414,500,'Reading ease score: 85.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75414,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75414,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75415,520,'"Spectacle Secrets" by George Cox is a practical guide on the usage and selection of spectacles, written in the mid-19th century. The text addresses the prevalent issues of quackery within the optical trade, aiming to empower readers with factual information about eyewear to protect them from deception and fraud. With the focus on the history of spectacles and understanding how they function to support various visual impairments, it serves as both an informative treatise and a consumer warning.  At the start of "Spectacle Secrets," the author discusses the historical context of spectacles and raises concerns about the misleading practices of some opticians. He emphasizes the importance of understanding how the eye works and the necessity of properly fitting lenses to maintain sight. Cox outlines the various types of lenses and their functions, subsequently cautioning readers against common scams, such as those who overcharge for subpar glasses. His aim is clear: to educate the public so they may make informed decisions when it comes to purchasing eyewear and avoid falling prey to unscrupulous sellers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75415,500,'Reading ease score: 49.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75415,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75415,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75416,520,'"Some Great American Books" by Dallas Lore Sharp is a guidebook written in the early 20th century that aims to introduce readers to notable American literature. The book serves as a curated selection of significant works, intended to foster a deeper understanding of American literary heritage by recommending a series of important texts for consecutive reading.  In this work, Sharp discusses a range of American authors and their key contributions to literature, including Washington Irving''s "The Sketch Book," James Fenimore Cooper''s "The Last of the Mohicans," and Nathaniel Hawthorne''s "The Scarlet Letter," among others. He emphasizes the importance of contextualizing literature within its historical period and encourages readers to engage actively with texts, appreciating their stylistic nuances and thematic depth. By providing recommendations and insights into each work, Sharp invites readers to embark on a journey through the diverse landscape of American literature, highlighting the cultural significance and emotional resonance of the selected books. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75416,500,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75416,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75416,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75417,520,'"The Story of Flamenca: The First Modern Novel, Arranged from the Provençal Original of the Thirteenth Century" by William Aspenwall Bradley is a novel based on medieval Provençal literature, specifically derived from the "Roman de Flamenca." This text was published in the early 20th century, highlighting the timeless themes of love and jealousy within a courtly context. The story centers on the beauty of Flamenca and the complex romantic entanglements that arise due to the jealousy of her husband, Archambaut, and another suitor, Guillem.  The narrative unfolds around Flamenca, the daughter of Count Guy of Nemours, whose beauty draws numerous suitors, leading to her eventual marriage to Archambaut. However, his intense jealousy restricts Flamenca''s freedom, causing her considerable distress as she is confined and unable to engage with the world. Meanwhile, Guillem de Nevers, a knight from Burgundy, becomes captivated by her plight. The story captures their secretive love, punctuated by clever exchanges and whispered conversations. As the tension rises, Guillem devises a plan to rescue Flamenca from her oppressive marriage, thus setting off a series of romantic adventures that explore themes of love, agency, and the pursuit of happiness amidst societal constraints. Ultimately, their love leads to both joy and liberation, marking a significant evolution in the romantic and narrative tradition of the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75417,500,'Reading ease score: 79.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75417,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75417,447);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75418,520,'"Ouroboros; or, the mechanical extension of mankind" by Garet Garrett is a philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. The work explores the evolution of humanity in relation to machines and mechanical inventions and examines how these advancements have transformed society, economics, and the nature of toil. The thematic insight focuses on humanity''s unending quest to escape labor through mechanization, only to find themselves entrenched in an even more profound cycle of production and consumption.  At the start of the treatise, the author presents a narrative of humanity''s historical struggle to escape the burdens of work, tracing this journey from the agricultural society to the age of machines. He discusses how the advent of technology and efficient machinery aimed to liberate individuals from manual labor but ultimately resulted in an overwhelming obligation to maintain and feed the very systems designed to serve them. As Garrett delves into the paradox of surplus production and the implications of mechanization, he raises thought-provoking questions about the nature of economic necessity and human fulfillment in the industrial landscape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75418,500,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75418,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75418,435);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75419,520,'"Poultry for Profit" by R. A. Power is a practical guidebook on poultry farming written in the early 20th century. This informative text is designed to educate readers about the various aspects of poultry production, including selecting breeds, proper care, feeding, and economic factors involved in the poultry industry. The book emphasizes the growing significance of poultry as a profitable enterprise, especially during times of rising food costs.  In this comprehensive guide, Power discusses the outlook for poultry farming, detailing the lucrative opportunities available to both farmers and urban dwellers. He covers various poultry breeds, their characteristics, and the advantages and disadvantages of each breed type, whether they are for eggs or meat production. Power elaborates on essential practices for raising chicks, managing health and diseases, and creating suitable housing conditions while addressing economic aspects such as marketing poultry products effectively. Through clear instructions and insights, "Poultry for Profit" serves as a valuable resource for anyone interested in entering or improving their poultry farming venture. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75419,500,'Reading ease score: 73.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75419,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75419,428);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75420,520,'"Behind the Prison Bars: A Reminder of Our Duties Toward Those Who Have Been So Unfortunate as to Be Cast into Prison" by E. E. Byrum is a social reform treatise written in the early 20th century. This work advocates for the humane treatment of prisoners, emphasizing the responsibility of society to support and rehabilitate individuals who find themselves incarcerated, regardless of their guilt or innocence. The author seeks to raise awareness about the conditions in prisons and the profound impact that compassion and literature can have on inmates'' lives.  The opening of the book presents a poignant view of prison life, where Byrum reflects on the feelings of despair and hopelessness that prisoners experience upon being sentenced. He discusses the duality of prison existence—the potential for personal reform through kindness juxtaposed against brutal treatment and severe punishment. Byrum highlights the importance of empathy, urging readers to take action on behalf of those behind bars, and introduces the concept of providing prisoners with access to uplifting literature as a means of instilling hope and facilitating rehabilitation. Furthermore, he shares observations about the systemic issues within the penal system, advocating for a more compassionate approach to punishment and reform. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75420,500,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75420,457);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75420,482);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75421,520,'"Shell Shock and its Lessons" by Grafton Elliot Smith and T. H. Pear is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book primarily discusses the condition known as "shell shock," a term used during World War I to describe a range of psychological disturbances resulting from the traumatic experiences of soldiers in combat. The authors aim to provide a comprehensive and accessible explanation of this condition, its symptoms, and its implications for mental health treatment in both military and civilian contexts.  At the start of the text, the authors introduce their motivations for creating this work, highlighting the urgent need for clear explanations of shell shock amidst widespread public and medical misconceptions. They emphasize the complexity of the psychological effects of war, noting that many soldiers display a unique combination of mental health issues that require a nuanced approach to treatment. Smith and Pear advocate for a scientifically grounded understanding of mental trauma, proposing that the conditions experienced by soldiers have existed prior to the war and are exacerbated by the unprecedented psychological stresses of modern warfare. The introduction sets a tone of compassion and a call for reform in how society addresses mental health, particularly in light of the experiences of returning soldiers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75421,500,'Reading ease score: 44.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75421,469);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75421,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75422,520,'"The Sirens: An Ode" by Laurence Binyon is a lengthy poem written in the early 20th century. This poetic work explores themes of beauty, longing, and the interplay between humanity and nature. It invokes the mythological Sirens, traditionally known for their enchanting songs that lure sailors to their doom, to articulate deeper philosophical questions regarding existence, desire, and the human condition.  In the ode, Binyon reflects on the profound and often tumultuous relationship between mankind and the cosmos. The poem captures the essence of longing for freedom and transcendence, where the speaker grapples with the tension between earthly responsibilities and the allure of the infinite. Through vivid imagery and evocative language, Binyon weaves a narrative that oscillates between moments of existential reflection and ethereal visions, drawing on both personal and collective experiences to explore humanity''s eternal quest for meaning and connection within the universe. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75422,500,'Reading ease score: 68.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75422,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75422,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75423,520,'"My Life and Balloon Experiences" by Henry Coxwell is an autobiographical account written in the late 19th century that details the author''s personal anecdotes and experiences in ballooning, alongside a supplementary chapter discussing military ballooning. The narrative reflects his fascination with aërostation from childhood through adulthood, capturing his early years, the thrill of witnessing balloon launches, and the daring adventures he embarked upon throughout his career.  At the start of the memoir, Coxwell recounts his upbringing, sharing vivid memories of his childhood near Rochester, England. He describes early experiences with military life, school, and an overwhelming curiosity about balloons that ultimately shapes his future. The opening sets the tone for a recollection filled with youthful exuberance and the reckless spirit of adventure as he navigates boyhood, engages in mischievous escapades, and gradually transitions into the world of aëronautics, hinting at the thrilling accounts of his ballooning adventures to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75423,500,'Reading ease score: 58.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75423,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75423,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75424,520,'"Ruotsin suomalaismetsiä samoilemassa: Päiväkirjaa vuoden 1817 matkalta" by Kaarle Aksel Gottlund is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work narrates the author''s journey into the Finnish communities of Sweden in the year 1817, exploring their culture, language, and experiences as he seeks to document their existence and history. Gottlund''s reflections reveal his deep interest in the Finnish identity, and the book provides insights into the life of these communities as well as the author''s adventurous spirit.  At the start of the narrative, Gottlund shares his motivations for embarking on his journey, emphasizing his dedication to studying the Finnish people living in the wilderness of Scandinavia. He reflects on his preparations, from acquiring knowledge about the Finnish language to gathering the necessary supplies. As he sets off on his adventure, Gottlund describes his mixed feelings of excitement and trepidation about exploring unfamiliar territories and meeting the local Finnish populace. His anticipation grows as he prepares to interact with the Finnish residents of the Swedish countryside, showcasing his commitment to uncovering their rich cultural heritage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75424,500,'Reading ease score: 41.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75424,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75424,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75425,520,'"Portuguese Literature" by Aubrey F. G. Bell is a scholarly account written in the early 20th century. The book explores the development and richness of Portuguese literature, spanning various epochs from its origins to contemporary times. Bell aims to highlight the contributions of notable authors and the broader cultural context that has shaped their works within Portuguese literary history.  The opening of "Portuguese Literature" provides insight into the significance of the 19th and 20th centuries for Portuguese literary heritage. The author reflects on how many important works and poets were previously forgotten, only to be rediscovered in recent years. He emphasizes the richness of indigenous poetry in the Iberian Peninsula and introduces the concept of "cossantes," a distinctive form of lyric poetry that showcases the unique artistic expression of early Portuguese poets, primarily found in historical poetry collections. Bell''s initial discourse sets the stage for a deeper exploration of the diverse literary forms and influences that characterize Portuguese writing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75425,500,'Reading ease score: 60.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75425,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75425,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75426,520,'"Geschichte des Araberaufstandes in Ost-Afrika" by Rochus Schmidt is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book explores the Arab uprising in East Africa, detailing its origins, suppression, and consequences. Schmidt aims to provide a thorough understanding of the events that led to this conflict, as well as a critical view of the actions taken by the involved parties, focusing on the historical and political context of colonialism in the region.  The opening of the work sets the stage by discussing the lack of comprehensive historical accounts regarding the Arab uprising in East Africa prior to Schmidt''s publication. It introduces the circumstances leading to the unrest, including the socio-political dynamics in the German colonial territories, the role of local powers such as the Sultan of Zanzibar, and the conflicts arising from German colonial ambitions. Schmidt emphasizes the objective critique of characters, actions, and events surrounding the colonization efforts, while also outlining the various factors that led to the uprising. The introduction signals that the narrative will combine historical documentation with personal insights from the author''s experiences during the colonial period. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75426,500,'Reading ease score: 58.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75426,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75427,520,'"The Incredible Slingshot Bombs" by Robert Moore Williams is a science fiction story written during the early 1940s. The narrative revolves around a simple character named Tommy Sonofagun, who wields a dangerous set of explosive pellets, discovering a hidden periphery where he poses an unintended threat to those around him. The story draws readers into a tense and suspenseful situation where misunderstanding and fear propel the plot.  The story follows Ben Hopper, a newspaper editor and the sheriff, Tim Hoskins, as they track down Tommy after a series of explosive incidents linked to his slingshot. Initially perceived as a simple-minded individual, Tommy becomes the focus of chaos when he unknowingly wields powerful projectiles created from future technology. As the plot unfolds, Ellen Briscoe, a local relief worker, and Ben race against time to find Tommy before the sheriff or his posse can eliminate him under the misunderstanding of danger. The climax reveals a hidden manufacturing site for atomic bombs, which Tommy stumbled upon, leading to a series of explosive events that highlight themes of fear, misunderstanding, and the ramifications of advanced technology in the hands of the unknowing. The story concludes with the tragic end of Tommy and leaves the characters grappling with the strangeness of time travel and the nature of truth versus public perception. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75427,500,'Reading ease score: 86.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75427,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75428,520,'"Adrienne" by Amy Le Feuvre is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around a young woman named Adrienne Chesterton who, while enjoying a happy life with her two uncles in the English countryside, receives a letter from her estranged aunt in France expressing her need for Adrienne''s companionship. This letter sets in motion a conflict between familial duties and personal happiness, as Adrienne grapples with whether to leave her comfortable life behind to support her aunt.  At the start of the narrative, Adrienne is introduced as a spirited and caring young woman, deeply integrated into the lives of her uncles, General and Admiral Chesterton. The opening portion details her interactions with them, their lively banter, and her longing for adventure in light of her aunt''s invitation. Ultimately, her inner turmoil arises from the choice between loyalty to her family and the fear of losing her current happiness. As she shares her thoughts with a childhood friend, Godfrey, the complexities of duty versus desire become even more pronounced, hinting at the emotional depth and character development to unfold throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75428,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75428,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75429,520,'"Vähäinen cocous suomalaisista runoista: Turusa 1755" by Gabriel Joosepinpoika Calamnius is a collection of Finnish poetry written during the mid-18th century. This book is notable as one of the few examples of poetry published in Finland during the time of Swedish rule. It primarily focuses on various themes related to Finnish culture and traditions, including marriage, mortality, and the beauty of nature, expressed through verse.  The collection is composed of wedding poems, funeral poems, and poetic wishes, each reflecting different aspects of life and societal values in Finland during that era. For instance, the wedding poems celebrate love and union, while the funeral poems delve into themes of death and loss, drawing on elements of Finnish folklore. Noteworthy poems include the often-quoted "Kevät keikkuen tuleepi," which ushers in the joys of spring, and the last poem that reflects the personal sorrow of the poet, portraying the blend of personal and communal experiences. Overall, Calamnius'' work is emblematic of the early Finnish poetic tradition, providing insight into the cultural landscape of 18th-century Finland. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75429,500,'Reading ease score: 25.2 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75429,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75429,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75430,520,'"Lapsuudenkoti" by Selma Lagerlöf is a novel written in the early 20th century. It explores themes of childhood, family dynamics, and the contrasting personalities that affect relationships within a household. The story centers around a little girl named Selma and her experiences with her caretaker Mäki-Kaisa, who, despite her harsh demeanor, becomes a pivotal figure in Selma''s life.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Mäki-Kaisa, a stern and somewhat rough girl employed as a caregiver for the children of the Lagerlöf family. Although she shows a lack of warmth toward the children and struggles to connect with them, Mäki-Kaisa proves to be reliable in her duties. The opening chapters depict the children''s interactions with her as they navigate their feelings of fear and admiration for her strength, culminating in a moment of vulnerability for Selma, who seeks Mäki-Kaisa''s help when she feels powerless with her own ailments. This dynamic sets the foundation for the exploration of love, empathy, and the complexities of relationships within the context of a childhood home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75430,500,'Reading ease score: 40.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75430,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75430,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75431,520,'"Abracadabra & Other Satires" by John Galsworthy is a collection of satirical writings likely created in the early 20th century. The book explores various themes of society, psychology, and human behavior through a lens of humor and critique. The opening piece, "Abracadabra," introduces us to a character named Minna, an awkward girl in her youth who struggles with shyness and social interaction, eventually transitioning into adulthood with complex experiences that highlight the challenges of life and societal expectations.  The beginning of "Abracadabra" sets the stage for a thoughtful exploration of Minna''s character, tracing her growth from a shy child to an adult marked by her experiences and relationships. The narrative reflects on her awkwardness, her relationships with peers, and the impact of her marriage on her well-being. As she faces life''s trials, the story skillfully contrasts her initial vulnerability with her later emotional resilience, ultimately questioning the nature of reality and the mind''s power over perception. Galsworthy''s use of satire invites readers to reflect on deeper truths about identity and societal roles, making it a rich starting point for those interested in character-driven explorations of human experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75431,500,'Reading ease score: 77.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75431,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75431,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75432,520,'"An Account of the Giants Lately Discovered: In a Letter to a Friend in the Country" by S.T. is a satirical text written in the late 18th century, likely during the Enlightenment period. This work takes the form of a letter that humorously discusses the purported discovery of a race of giants in Patagonia by Captain Byron and his crew. The author utilizes the theme of curiosity and exploration, reflecting the era’s fascination with the unknown while critiquing the political and social attitudes of the time.  The book presents a fictional narrative in which Captain Byron encounters a group of large, humanoid beings, described as giants. These giants are characterized as polite, albeit timid, as they retreat from the crew upon their approach. Through this fanciful account, the author explores various themes such as colonization, racial theories, and the notion of civilization. The text incorporates commentary on the absurdities of political discourse, the treatment of indigenous populations, and human curiosity regarding other cultures. Ultimately, it serves as both a whimsical exploration of newfound worlds and a critique of the imperialist mindset prevalent in the author’s society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75432,500,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75432,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75432,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75433,520,'"La Puritaine et l’Amour" by Robert de Traz is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story appears to center around Clarisse, a woman characterized as a puritan and a model of moral virtue, whose life and interactions with other family members and social circles are explored in rich detail. The opening scenes set the stage for an in-depth examination of social norms, personal beliefs, and the intricacies of human relationships within a bourgeois family in Geneva.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Clarisse through a lively dinner conversation where her purity and charitable nature are discussed by fellow diner Desnouettes. He describes her as a representative of a traditional Geneva, embodying virtues that contrast with the more liberated social attitudes around her. The dinner unfolds in the context of mixed company, highlighting various family members with distinct personalities and backgrounds. The atmosphere is heavy with the weight of familial and societal expectations, creating a backdrop against which Clarisse’s interactions—particularly with Desnouettes, who is intrigued by her complexity—lay the groundwork for the narrative''s exploration of themes like love, morality, and societal roles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75433,500,'Reading ease score: 74.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75433,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75433,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75434,520,'"The Books of the Apocrypha: Their Origin, Teaching and Contents" by W. O. E. Oesterley is a scholarly examination of the Apocryphal texts written in the early 20th century. This work focuses on clarifying the importance and historical context of the Apocrypha, which consists of biblical books that are not universally recognized as canonical yet serve as significant resources for understanding Jewish and early Christian thought. Oesterley aims to address misconceptions about these texts and provide insights into their contents, origins, and the teachings they encompass.  At the start of this comprehensive study, the author outlines the burgeoning interest in Apocryphal literature and its significance in connecting the Old and New Testaments. He discusses the vital role of Hellenism and its profound influence on Judaism during the time the Apocryphal books were composed, suggesting that a thorough understanding requires examining diverse historical and cultural contexts. Notably, Oesterley emphasizes the diversity of the Apocryphal writings, encompassing history, wisdom literature, and apocalyptic texts, urging readers to appreciate their theological and moral implications in the broader scope of ancient religious thought. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75434,500,'Reading ease score: 65.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75434,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75434,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75435,520,'"Fish Preferred" by P. G. Wodehouse is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story primarily revolves around the lighthearted trials and tribulations of characters entrenched in the British aristocracy, especially focusing on Clarence, ninth Earl of Emsworth, and the various comical situations arising from the relationships and misunderstandings among his family and associates. The book promises a mix of witty humor and intricate social dynamics typical of Wodehouse''s work.  The opening of "Fish Preferred" introduces us to the tranquil setting of Blandings Castle, specifically through the eyes of Beach, the butler, and Mr. Hugo Carmody, the Earl''s private secretary. As they engage in a dialogue laced with clever banter, we learn that Carmody harbors romantic intentions towards Millicent, the Earl''s niece, and is preoccupied with avoiding the scrutiny of Lady Constance, Millicent''s formidable aunt. This initial interaction sets the tone for a whimsical exploration of love, duty, and social status, suggesting that chaos may soon ensue with the arrival of other family members, ultimately weaving an intricate tapestry of comedic entanglements and misunderstandings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75435,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Summer_Lightning',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75435,500,'Reading ease score: 84.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75435,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75435,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75436,520,'"The Desert Moon Mystery" by Kay Cleaver Strahan is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around the complex relationships and mysteries surrounding the Desert Moon Ranch, particularly focusing on characters such as Sam Stanley, the ranch owner, and the enigmatic Canneziano twins, Danielle and Gabrielle. As they return to the ranch, the narrative hints at underlying tensions, secrets, and perhaps the shadows of past grievances that will unfold into a gripping tale of intrigue.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Mary, the housekeeper, who is already sensing trouble as news arrives of the Canneziano twins'' intention to return to the ranch. Mary converses with Sam about their arrival, expressing her skepticism about their motives. The background of Margarita, their mother, and her tumultuous past with Sam, along with hints at family drama involving Dan Canneziano, set the stage for the unfolding mystery and emotional conflicts. Tension is built as both Mary and Sam consider the implications of the twins'' return to a place already marked by romance, betrayal, and unresolved emotions. This intertwining of personal histories and the suspense of what is to come creates an engaging atmosphere for the reader. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75436,500,'Reading ease score: 91.4 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75436,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75436,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75437,520,'"Le Routier de la mer jusques au fleuve de Jourdain" by Garcie and Maillard is a navigational guide published in the late 15th century. This historical account provides detailed instructions and information about maritime routes, tidal flows, and navigational hazards along the coast of Brittany and beyond, offering insights into the challenges faced by sailors during this period. The book is essentially a blend of practical navigation, maritime law, and geographical insights relevant to the seafaring community of its time.  The content of the book systematically outlines various maritime routes, describing the tides, currents, and geographical landmarks essential for safe passage. It discusses the specifics of navigation—where to anchor, how to respond to changing tides, and the dangers presented by underwater features and weather conditions. Moreover, it provides legal guidelines concerning maritime commerce and the responsibilities of shipmasters and crew, illustrating the complex interplay of navigation and law in the maritime world of the late Middle Ages. Overall, it serves as a crucial resource for understanding the maritime practices and challenges of the era. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75437,500,'Reading ease score: 85.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75437,447);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75437,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75438,520,'"Corsairs of the Cosmos" by Edmond Hamilton is a science fiction novel that was written in the early 20th century, at a time when the genre was gaining popularity. The story follows Captain Dur Nal and his crew in the Interstellar Patrol as they confront a formidable threat: a group of machines from another galaxy that has devised a method to steal suns. The narrative unfolds in a richly imagined cosmos filled with stellar phenomena and mechanical aliens, addressing themes of survival, exploration, and the conflict between organic life and machines.  In the book, Captain Dur Nal and his officers embark on a perilous journey after discovering that a fleet of dark stars is approaching their galaxy, propelled by a mechanical race seeking to harvest suns. The crew learns that these dark stars are infused with artificial propulsion systems, allowing them to navigate the cosmos like ships. Upon landing on one of these dark stars, they encounter a variety of mechanical entities, ultimately discovering the invaders'' dark intentions: to strip their galaxy of valuable young suns to replace dying ones in their own. The majority of the story revolves around the ensuing conflict between the Interstellar Patrol and the machines, marked by thrilling space battles and strategic ingenuity as they fight to protect their home and reclaim what was stolen. Ultimately, the Patrol devises a bold plan to infiltrate the machines'' galaxy and defeat them using a fleet of their own equipped dark stars, showcasing themes of resilience and ingenuity in the face of overwhelming odds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75438,500,'Reading ease score: 82.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75438,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75439,520,'"The King''s English" by H. W. Fowler and F. G. Fowler is a guide on English language usage written in the early 20th century. This work aims to address the common blunders in grammar and style, providing examples from various authors and publications. The Fowler brothers focus on principles that promote clarity and simplicity in writing, encouraging writers to prefer familiar and concrete expressions over complicated and obscure language.  The opening of the book lays out the authors'' rationale for its creation, explaining that many writers avoid grammar and composition books due to their exhaustive nature. Instead, the Fowlers propose a methodology that highlights frequent mistakes seen in contemporary writing, using real examples to illustrate these points. The first chapter introduces general principles for vocabulary selection, advocating for straightforward choices that enhance comprehension. They assert that effective communication hinges on using clear, direct language that resonates with readers, cautioning against pretentious or unnecessarily complex terminology. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75439,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_King%27s_English',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75439,500,'Reading ease score: 59.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75439,456);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75440,520,'"Monsieur Teste" by "Paul Valéry" is a philosophical exploration written in the late 19th century. The narrative delves into the life and thoughts of the enigmatic character Monsieur Teste, who embodies a unique blend of intellect and introspection. The work mainly focuses on Teste''s intense self-awareness and his complex relationship with the world around him, highlighting themes of consciousness and the struggle for understanding.  At the start of the narrative, the author reflects on the conception of Monsieur Teste as a creature born from a blend of youthful literary ambition and profound self-examination. Valéry presents Teste as a character who lives in a state of acute awareness, driven by the desire for precision and authentic understanding. The text introduces various philosophical musings on the nature of thought, existence, and societal norms, as observed through the lens of Teste''s fascinating yet tumultuous introspective journey. The reader is invited into Teste''s world, filled with rich, abstract reflections, establishing him as a profound thinker navigating the complexities of human existence while contemplating the nature of reality itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75440,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monsieur_Teste',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75440,500,'Reading ease score: 72.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75440,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75440,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75441,520,'"Terror out of the Past" by Raymond Z. Gallun is a science fiction novel written in the early 1940s. The story revolves around Perry Wilcox and Doctor Roderick Murgatroyd as they uncover the secrets of an ancient civilization buried within the Earth. Through their exploration, the protagonists stumble upon advanced technology and mechanized guardians that once protected this mysterious society. The book touches on themes of adventure, curiosity, and the unforeseen consequences of human exploration.  The narrative begins with Wilcox and Murgatroyd discovering a hidden fortress while drilling into a knoll, revealing evidence of an ancient civilization. As they dig deeper, they encounter automated machines and robots, which escalate into a conflict involving modern military forces. The protagonists soon find themselves shrunk down to a miniature size and trapped within this hidden world. They uncover the tragic history of the civilization and its downfall, as well as the machinations of Lyman Kerwin, a corrupt businessman seeking to monopolize their technology. The story culminates in a battle that not only tests the characters'' wit and perseverance but also underscores the dangers of greed and ambition against the backdrop of forgotten wonders. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75441,500,'Reading ease score: 75.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75441,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75442,520,'"Camp Fires and Camp Cooking: or, Culinary Hints for the Soldier: Including Receipt for Making Bread in the ''Portable Field Oven'' Furnished by the Subsistence Department" by Captain James M. Sanderson is a practical guide focused on military cooking, likely written during the early 1860s amidst the American Civil War. This historical account aims to provide culinary instructions for soldiers in the field, emphasizing the use of limited resources and equipment available to them.  The book offers a detailed compilation of cooking methods, recipes, and tips to aid soldiers in preparing nutritious meals using basic campfire cooking techniques. It discusses essential utensils and rations while highlighting the importance of cleanliness and efficiency in meal preparation. Sanderson shares specific recipes, such as beef and pork soups, bean dishes, and even bread-making instructions using a portable oven, demonstrating that even in challenging conditions, a soldier can enjoy hearty and satisfying meals. The guide serves not only as a manual for sustenance but also fosters morale, teaching that a well-fed soldier is a happier and healthier soldier. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75442,500,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75442,431);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75442,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75443,520,'"Venne Richerdes: Roman aus der Geschichte Goslars" by Hermann Kassebaum is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the picturesque backdrop of Bologna, Italy, where we meet three German students—Johannes Hardt, Heinrich Achtermann, and the carefree Gottfried Kristaller—who are about to return home after completing their studies in law. As they prepare for their journey back to Goslar, their lives intersect with that of Richenza von Walldorf, a captivating young woman who stirs feelings in Heinrich, complicating their farewell.  The beginning of the novel introduces readers to the vibrant world of German students in Bologna, highlighting their camaraderie and the romantic tensions that emerge as they prepare to leave Italy. The narrative captures the youthful enthusiasm of the trio, especially focusing on Heinrich''s playful interactions with Richenza, which hint at deeper emotions beneath both their light-hearted banter and the inevitable sadness approaching them as they are set to part ways. Through lively dialogue and vivid descriptions, Kassebaum sets the stage for a tale enriched with themes of friendship, love, and the bittersweet nature of goodbyes, immersing readers in a unique historical setting intertwined with personal stories. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75443,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75443,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75443,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75444,520,'"Suru-Runot Suomalaiset" by Gabriel Joosefinpoika Calamnius is a collection of Finnish lamentations and reflections written during the early 18th century. The book serves as an emotional expression of sorrow and suffering in response to the harsh realities faced by the Finnish people, particularly during the turmoil of war and oppression. Calamnius provides a powerful glimpse into the struggles of his time, which includes the impact of wars and foreign invasions on the Finnish landscape and its inhabitants.  The content of "Suru-Runot Suomalaiset" comprises a series of poems that vividly depict the pain, loss, and emotional turmoil experienced by the Finnish people. The author recounts the effects of Swedish and Russian conflicts, highlighting the suffering of civilians—particularly the destruction of homes, the separation of families, and the devastation of the land. Through heartfelt lamentations, Calamnius captures both the physical and psychological scars left by these conflicts, offering a poignant reflection on resilience amidst despair. The poems serve as a testament to the collective memory of a nation grappling with its identity in the face of relentless adversities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75444,500,'Reading ease score: 10.6 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75444,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75444,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75445,520,'"Rouva Meseck: Kyläkertomus" by Max Halbe is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the character of Rouva Meseck, an elderly widow preparing for her silver wedding anniversary with a much younger husband. The narrative paints a picture of rural life, focusing on the interactions of the village community and the significance of Meseck''s life events, emphasizing themes of aging, societal norms, and personal relationships.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to a rural setting during the harvest season, detailed vividly with descriptions of laborers working tirelessly to collect wet grain after recent rains. As the villagers go about their daily tasks, gossip about Rouva Meseck and her unusual marriage surfaces, revealing her longevity and resilience. The narrative hints at the anticipation of her silver wedding anniversary celebration, which juxtaposes a sense of community excitement with underlying tensions about age, relationships, and the complexities of her past marriages. The opening effectively sets the tone for exploring the life of Rouva Meseck in relation to societal expectations and personal struggles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75445,500,'Reading ease score: 38.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75445,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75445,463);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75446,520,'"A History of Slavic Studies in the United States" by Clarence Augustus Manning is an historical account written in the mid-20th century. This work explores the development and evolution of Slavic studies within the American educational and cultural landscape. Manning''s analysis highlights how factors such as immigration and cultural exchange have shaped the study of Slavic languages, history, and culture in the United States, considering both formal academic frameworks and the contributions of immigrant communities."  "At the start of this historical account, the author outlines the challenges and complexities involved in compiling a comprehensive history of Slavic studies in the U.S. Manning emphasizes the slow emergence of formal Slavic studies in higher education, which largely began through individual efforts and gradually gained traction. He discusses the influence of various waves of Slavic immigration, especially in the context of American life and the unique factors that differentiate Slavic studies in the U.S. from those in other Western countries. The opening sets the stage for a detailed exploration of the contributions and challenges faced by emigrants and scholars alike in integrating Slavic culture into the broader American consciousness." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75446,500,'Reading ease score: 51.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75446,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75446,473);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75447,520,'"Le mal d’aimer" by Henri Ardel is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around the Danestal family, particularly the youngest daughter, France, who is navigating the complexities of family dynamics and societal expectations during a summer vacation. The novel likely explores themes of love, ambition, and the contrast between artistic ideals and pragmatic pursuits, as the characters grapple with their desires and the realities of their social status.  The opening of the novel establishes the setting as the Danestal family arrives at Villers-sur-Mer, where they are greeted by the vibrant atmosphere of summer. France Danestal is portrayed as a thoughtful and observant young woman, contrasting with her elegant sister Colette, who is keen on making a favorable impression during their holiday. As they interact with other characters, including the wealthy Asseline family, the narrative hints at underlying tensions regarding social class and marriage prospects. France''s reflections on her family''s dynamics reveal her desire for independence and artistic expression, setting the stage for potential conflicts between her ambitions and her sister''s more material-focused pursuits. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75447,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75447,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75447,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75448,520,'"Every-day Help for Every-day People" by Dorothy Dix is a self-help guide written in the early 20th century. The book aims to offer practical advice on relationships and domestic life, primarily addressing the dynamics between husbands and wives, as well as parenting and family issues. Through a keen understanding of human nature and everyday struggles, Dix seeks to illuminate common problems and provide solutions for leading a more fulfilling life.  The opening of the book introduces readers to the author’s philosophy, shaped by her own trials and hardships. Dorothy Dix reflects on having experienced poverty and struggle, which empowers her to provide insights on navigating life''s challenges. In the foreword, she discusses the relationship dynamics she has observed through the countless letters she receives, highlighting that both men and women often seek her guidance on their marital and familial dilemmas. The initial chapters focus on how to treat husbands properly, emphasizing the importance of understanding the unique emotional needs of men. This combination of personal narrative and advice sets the tone for a practical exploration of domestic life and offers readers valuable lessons drawn from real-life experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75448,500,'Reading ease score: 71.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75448,464);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75448,452);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75449,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no.…" is a periodical publication edited by R. Chambers (Secundus) and established by William and Robert Chambers in 1832. This volume, which appears to have been published in the late 19th century, encompasses a variety of articles on literature, science, and art, reflecting the intellectual curiosity and cultural developments of the time. The specific entries within this edition cover topics ranging from anthropological notes about the New Hebrides islands to narratives and practical commentary on legal matters, showcasing the publication''s wide-ranging interests.  The content in this particular issue spans multiple facets of knowledge and storytelling. For instance, it provides a detailed overview of the New Hebrides, discussing the islands'' geography, demographic nuances, and local customs, highlighting the contrast between their distinctive cultures and archaeological significance. Additionally, the journal includes captivating narratives, such as a thrilling account of a burglary thwarted by young George Leggett, who, noticing two intruders attempting to break into a storeroom, effectively defended his home. This incident, rich with suspense and moral implications, is interwoven with an exploration of legal concepts, emphasizing the complexities of property rights and justice. This mix of educational and literary content makes the publication not only informative but also engaging for readers interested in the cultural and intellectual climate of the late 1800s. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75449,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Edinburgh_Journal',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75449,500,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75449,436);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75449,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75450,520,'"Der krasse Fuchs" by Walter Bloem is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a young student, Werner Achenbach, as he navigates the complex world of university life, particularly focusing on the traditions and rivalries of student fraternities. The narrative explores themes of youth, desire, and the struggles of transitioning from adolescence to adulthood, including the emotional turmoil and moral dilemmas faced by Werner.  The opening of the novel vividly describes a tranquil spring morning as Werner and his companion, Dammer, prepare to attend a fencing match, known as a Mensur, integral to student life in their fraternity. As they walk through the blooming countryside, Werner''s thoughts are consumed by a mixture of excitement and anxiety regarding the violence he is about to witness. The narrative paints a detailed picture of his surroundings and captures his inner conflict about masculinity, societal expectations, and romantic interests. As the characters reflect on their impending duel and flirt with romantic notions, the tension between youthful exuberance and the harsh realities of their environment becomes apparent, setting the stage for Werner''s emotional journey throughout the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75450,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_krasse_Fuchs',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75450,500,'Reading ease score: 74.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75450,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75450,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75451,520,'"The Play''s the Thing" by Ferenc Molnár, adapted by P. G. Wodehouse, is a comedic play written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers on the intersecting lives of three characters: Sandor Turai, a famous dramatist; Albert Adam, a young composer; and Ilona Szabo, a prima donna. The play unfolds in an Italian castle and humorously explores themes of love, jealousy, and the complexities of relationships within the theatrical world.  The opening of the play introduces us to Turai and his collaborators, Mansky and Adam, as they arrive at a beautiful Italian villa. Their conversations are imbued with humorous reflections on writing plays, particularly the challenge of introducing characters effectively. Adam, smitten with Ilona, eagerly anticipates seeing her, but they soon discover that she is off on a picnic, creating a sense of urgency for their reunion. Tension escalates when it becomes clear that Ilona has a complicated history with Almady, a prominent actor residing in the castle, leading to a series of comical misunderstandings and romantic entanglements. As Turai deliberates on how to craft their tangled emotions into a successful play, the groundwork is set for a dramatic and humorous exploration of love''s trials in the world of theater. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75451,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Play%27s_the_Thing_(play)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75451,500,'Reading ease score: 88.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75451,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75451,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75452,520,'"Archimedes; or, the Future of Physics" by Lancelot Law Whyte is a scientific publication likely written in the early to mid-20th century. The work explores the convergence of physics, biology, and psychology, suggesting that a groundbreaking synthesis within these disciplines is imminent. The narrative discusses pivotal moments in scientific history where significant ideas emerged independently among various thinkers, paving the way for a new epoch in scientific thought.  The opening of the work introduces a compelling argument concerning the unification of sciences, particularly emphasizing how themes in physics are increasingly relevant to understanding life processes and consciousness. Whyte references historical shifts in scientific paradigms, juxtaposing classical physics with emerging theories that recognize the importance of time and irreversibility in both physical and organic processes. The discussion extends to how advancements in atomic theory may eventually bridge the gap between the seemingly disjoint realms of matter and life, ultimately foreshadowing a rich interplay between scientific inquiry and our understanding of consciousness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75452,500,'Reading ease score: 51.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75452,478);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75452,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75453,520,'"Our Search for a Wilderness" by Mary Blair Beebe and C. William Beebe is a scientific account written in the early 20th century. The book chronicles the authors'' ornithological expeditions to Venezuela and British Guiana, exploring the diverse wildlife and ecosystems of these regions. It presents an intimate perspective on the rich array of bird species encountered, as well as observations of their natural habitats.   The opening of the book introduces the Beebes'' exciting journey, beginning with their departure from New York in February 1908. They embark on a small sloop headed towards the Orinoco Delta, with a strong desire to discover untouched wilderness. As they navigate through the waters, they experience rough seas before finally reaching the mangrove-laden wilderness. Initial disappointment in not seeing much wildlife quickly turns to awe as the vibrant colors of various birds, including the stunning Scarlet Ibis, begin to appear against the backdrop of the lush, untamed landscape. This section sets the tone for the Beebes'' explorations—an ongoing quest to uncover the vivid life and beauty of the jungle while documenting their findings on avian species and the surrounding environment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75453,500,'Reading ease score: 68.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75453,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75453,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75454,520,'"Le Sud-Oranais: études floristiques et phytogéographiques" by B. P. G. Hochreutiner is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work documents the results of a botanical exploration undertaken in the southwestern region of Algeria in 1901. The book likely covers various aspects of the region''s flora and phytogeography, providing insights into plant diversity and ecological conditions observed during the expedition.  The opening of the study sets the stage for Hochreutiner''s journey, beginning with his travels from Geneva to Algeria, and detailing his initial explorations around Alger and the surrounding areas. It introduces key locations he visits, including the Bouzarea and the Jardin d’Essai, while also highlighting challenges such as unfavorable weather during his herbarium collections. Hochreutiner notes his gratitude to various authorities and persons who assisted him during his exploration. The structure of the publication is also introduced, indicating that it will consist of a narrative of travel and systematic listings of the flora he encounters throughout his explorations in the region. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75454,500,'Reading ease score: 77.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75454,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75454,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75455,520,'"Eine Kindheitserinnerung des Leonardo da Vinci" by Sigmund Freud is a psychoanalytical examination written in the early 20th century. Freud delves into the childhood experiences of the renowned artist and scientist Leonardo da Vinci, exploring the psychological implications of his memories and how they shaped his development as a creative genius. The work aims to uncover the relationship between da Vinci''s early experiences and his later artistic and scientific pursuits, emphasizing the interplay of personal history and broader cultural context.  The opening of this work introduces the premise that psychoanalytic research, typically focused on weaker subjects, can yield insights even from great figures like da Vinci. Freud opens with reference to a peculiar memory that da Vinci claimed to have from infancy, involving a vulture opening his mouth with its tail. Freud considers this memory’s veracity and suggests it might not reflect a true recollection but instead a later-constructed fantasy, a common trait in human memory. He ponders the meanings behind this memory, linking it to da Vinci''s artistic and scientific inquiries about nature and flight. Throughout this analysis, Freud sets the stage for a deeper investigation into the psychological implications of da Vinci''s experiences, suggesting that his early memories and resultant fantasies may heavily influence his approach to art, knowledge, and the exploration of natural phenomena. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75455,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonardo_da_Vinci,_A_Memory_of_His_Childhood https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eine_Kindheitserinnerung_des_Leonardo_da_Vinci',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75455,500,'Reading ease score: 55.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75455,469);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75455,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75456,520,'"Books and Men" by Agnes Repplier is a collection of essays written in the late 19th century. The work addresses various aspects of literature, education, and the changing nature of childhood, reflecting on how societal attitudes towards children and books have evolved over time. Repplier''s insightful commentary weaves together anecdotes, historical references, and critical observations, aiming to engage readers in a deeper understanding of the complexities involved in children''s literature and education.  The opening of "Books and Men" explores the significant evolution in the treatment and upbringing of children, contrasting past disciplinary measures with modern approaches. Repplier highlights historical examples, such as the rigid and severe educational methods employed by figures like John Wesley and the Edgeworths, to illustrate the harsh realities that children faced. She reflects on how contemporary children are favored in comparison to their predecessors, enjoying liberties that allow for a more vibrant and engaged childhood. Through her exploration of these themes, she sets the stage for a nuanced discussion on literature''s role in shaping young minds and the responsibilities adults hold in guiding their developmental journeys. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75456,500,'Reading ease score: 56.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75456,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75456,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75457,520,'"Perintö Reinin rannalla: Romaani nykyvuosilta" by René Schickele is a novel written in the late 1920s. The narrative focuses on themes of love, loss, and the passage of time, as seen through the eyes of its protagonist, who is grappling with the memory of his deceased wife, Doris, and the complex emotions surrounding his connection with another woman, Maria Cappon. The reflective and introspective style invites readers into deep explorations of personal grief and longing.  The opening of the novel presents the protagonist, who is writing a letter to a woman named Maria, reflecting on the aftermath of his wife''s death. He wrestles with feelings of guilt and nostalgia as he contemplates the years gone by, feeling disconnected from Maria and questioning whether he should send the letter after two years of silence. The passage captures his inner turmoil and memories of his lost love, setting a tone of melancholy and introspection. As he observes the changing landscape outside, he hints at a longing for both connection and the simplicity of existence, while also confronting the complexities that love brings, especially when intertwined with loss. The gradual shift from winter to spring serves as a metaphor for hope and renewal, underlying the emotional depth of his thoughts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75457,500,'Reading ease score: 42.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75457,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75458,520,'"Suomea ristiin rastiin" by Ernst Lampén is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. The text explores the author''s experiences and reflections on the value of travel, urging readers to appreciate the understanding and connections formed between people from different nations. It aims to emphasize the overarching theme of international brotherhood through tourism.  The opening of the narrative presents the author’s philosophical musings on the purpose of travel, particularly the idea that exposure to various cultures fosters acceptance and understanding. As he shares his thoughts on travelers—depicting both affluent tourists and everyday adventurers—the author contrasts the spirited interactions of the lively Finnish people with the subdued nature of those in more reserved regions. The narrative hints at an underlying journey, not only through Finland''s landscapes but also through the exploration of the human spirit and the essence of culture. Lampén’s observations on tourism and the importance of openness serve as an introduction to the stories of his travels to various locales. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75458,500,'Reading ease score: 34.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75458,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75458,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75459,520,'"Le Père Lebonnard : Comédie en 4 actes, en vers" by Jean Aicard is a comedic play written in the late 19th century. The narrative revolves around the character Lebonnard, an old horologist who straddles the line between his humble profession and the expectations of his family and society. The play explores themes of familial loyalty, the conflicts between personal desires and societal pressures, and the generational gap in values.  The beginning of "Le Père Lebonnard" introduces us to the titular character in his workshop, busy with his horological tasks. He shares a tender moment with his daughter Jeanne, who has recently recovered from a serious illness. Lebonnard''s affection for his children is palpable, setting the stage for conflicts that arise as his wife pushes for a more socially advantageous marriage for their daughter, while Lebonnard holds a different vision for Jeanne, favoring her feelings over social rank. As the act unfolds, we also meet several other characters, including his son Robert, who embodies a more modern, reckless attitude, and the women''s insistence on marrying into noble families, highlighting the play''s exploration of class and familial dynamics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75459,500,'Reading ease score: 87.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75459,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75459,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75460,520,'"They''re a Multitoode" and Other Stories by F. C. Stephenson is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The title story revolves around themes of charity and foreign missions, highlighting the experiences of various characters, such as Christopher Morton, Jr., and Jim Perry, who engage in fundraising for missions to support those who live in darkness. The narratives draw upon the real-life challenges and insights of missionaries, offering reflections on faith, purpose, and the impact of their work.  The opening of the collection introduces us to Christopher Morton, Jr., who is immersed in his business life, contemplating the meaning of his existence when an unexpected visit from his friend Jim Perry, a missionary recently returned from China, prompts deep reflection. Jim shares stories of his life among the Chinese, emphasizing the hardships faced by those in desperate spiritual need. Their conversation leads Chris to ponder the significance of his own life’s work and the contributions he could make towards the betterment of others through charitable actions. This sets the tone for the personal and broader themes that will unfold throughout the stories, exploring both the human drive for material success and the yearning for a meaningful legacy through benevolence and service. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75460,500,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75460,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75460,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75461,520,'"The Case of Miss Elliott" by Baroness Emmuska Orczy is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. This intriguing tale revolves around the mysterious death of Miss Elliott, a beloved matron at a convalescent home, who is found dead under suspicious circumstances, stirring public and professional interest. The story hints at numerous characters, including a man in the corner who seems to possess insightful knowledge regarding the case, as well as individuals entangled in potential motives and the unfolding drama of the investigation.  At the start of the book, the narrative introduces us to a conversation between an inquisitive observer and a knowledgeable figure, referred to as "the man in the corner." He discusses the tragic case of Miss Elliott, whose death is classified as a potential murder or suicide, raising questions about her life, professional struggles at the convalescent home, and the complex relationships she had with her colleagues. As the man shares details about the inquest and the various characters involved — including Dr. Stapylton and Dr. Kinnaird — the reader is led to consider the financial misconduct hinted at within the home and the emotional tensions that may have played a role in Miss Elliott''s demise. This opening portion adeptly sets the stage for a complex mystery filled with suspense and intrigue, drawing the reader into a world of secrets and investigations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75461,500,'Reading ease score: 67.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75461,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75462,520,'"Songs and Lyrics of Robert Burns" by Robert Burns is a collection of poetry and song lyrics written in the late 18th century. This anthology showcases the works of the renowned Scottish poet, whose verses often explore themes of love, nature, and humanity, reflecting his deep connection to his Scottish roots and the common folk. The collection is rich with emotion and technical prowess, making it an enduring part of literary heritage.  At the start of the anthology, there is a detailed transcriber’s note outlining the text formatting and an introduction that sets the tone for understanding Burns''s poetry. The introduction discusses the lasting impact and evolving interpretations of Burns''s work, highlighting his ambition to give a voice to the struggles of common life and the profound human experiences of love and kinship. The opening portion presents his well-known verses, expressing feelings of nostalgia, love, and the beauty of the Scottish landscape, all of which underscore the timeless relevance of his poetry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75462,500,'Reading ease score: 83.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75462,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75462,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75463,520,'"Red Love" by Alexandra Kollontai is a novel written in the late 1920s, exploring the nuances of love, gender roles, and societal expectations in post-revolutionary Russia. The narrative revolves around Vassilissa, a spirited working-girl and ardent Communist, who grapples with the demands of her political commitments and her emotional ties to her lover, a comrade named Volodya. Through Vassilissa''s journey, the novel intricately examines the evolving dynamics of love and professional duty in a transforming society.  The beginning of "Red Love" introduces Vassilissa as a passionate advocate for peace even in the face of war, demonstrating her commitment to both her political beliefs and her role as a socialist worker. She initially appears beleaguered by the hardships brought on by her devotion to the Revolution while yearning for her lover''s company amidst their challenging separation. As she engages with her community initiatives, her longing for Volodya deepens, accentuating her internal conflict between her personal desires and the collective responsibilities imposed by a revolutionary society. This tension sets the stage for an exploration of intimate relationships against the backdrop of social upheaval, hinting at the complexities that will unfold as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75463,500,'Reading ease score: 87.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75463,440);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75463,473);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75464,520,'"Principles of Electricity" by Maynard Shipley is a scientific publication written during the early 20th century. This book aims to explain the fundamental principles of electricity and magnetism, exploring concepts from basic definitions to the relationships between various electrical phenomena and their historical context.  In the book, Shipley begins with a clear definition of electricity and its nature as a form of energy. He discusses the historical perspectives of early philosophers and scientists like Thales and Faraday, tracing the development of theories relating to electricity and magnetism. Key concepts covered include electrostatics, magnetic phenomena, and the pioneering experiments that led to the advancement of wireless telegraphy, ultimately explaining how electricity functions and its various applications. The text also delves into the contributions made to electromagnetic theory by notable figures from history while addressing contemporary understanding—and ongoing questions—about the nature of electricity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75464,500,'Reading ease score: 49.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75464,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75465,520,'"My Friend Doggie; or, An Only Child" by G. R. Glasgow is a charming children''s story written in the early 20th century. The book explores themes of friendship, generosity, and the innocence of childhood through the interactions between a little girl from a privileged background and a boy from a less affluent family. It portrays the values of love and kindness that transcend social class.  The narrative revolves around Bet, a young boy who embodies mischief and plainness yet possesses a generous heart. He forms a bond with Miss Dolly, a lovely girl who shows bravery when she defends his kitty from some rough boys. In an act of selflessness, Bet decides to give his beloved puppy as a Christmas gift to Dolly, showcasing the depth of his feelings and the importance of friendship. As the story unfolds, it highlights the joy of simple acts of kindness and the meaningful connections formed between children, ultimately portraying a heartwarming tale of love that unites different worlds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75465,500,'Reading ease score: 67.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75465,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75466,520,'"Famous Stories from Foreign Countries" by Edna Worthley Underwood is a collection of translated tales written in the early 20th century. This anthology features stories from various international authors, weaving narratives that showcase the cultural richness and unique flavors of their respective regions. Through these stories, Underwood aims to introduce readers to diverse perspectives and morals found in folklore and literature from around the world.  The opening of the collection presents a variety of authors and their contributions, setting a tone for the eclectic mix of tales to come. Among the initial pieces is "The Little Blanchefleure," a story about a charming Marquise in 18th-century France, highlighting her allure and the complexities of love in a world on the brink of revolution. It interweaves themes of nobility, beauty, and social change, as characters confront the shifting tides of history and personal desires. This introduction provides a glimpse into the fascinating narratives that follow, inviting readers to explore rich, imaginative worlds and the lessons they hold. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75466,500,'Reading ease score: 84.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75466,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75466,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75467,520,'"Sweated Industry and the Minimum Wage" by Clementina Black is a critical examination of labor conditions and socioeconomic issues surrounding underpaid workers in Britain, written in the early 20th century. The text focuses on the plight of various groups of exploited workers, particularly emphasizing the concept of "sweating," where workers receive inadequate wages, often while working in deplorable conditions. Black aims to critique the systems that perpetuate poverty and advocate for legislative changes, particularly the introduction of a minimum wage to alleviate the suffering of the working classes.  At the start of the work, the author frames the issue of sweating within the wider context of social justice, indicating that individual charitable efforts have proven insufficient to address the systemic problems facing the lowest-paid workers. Black relates the experiences of home workers, such as matchbox makers and shirt makers, illustrating their harrowing daily lives filled with relentless toil for meager pay. The opening chapters also highlight specific case studies, including the tragic history of the Jarvis family, who succumbed to the dire conditions of their existence. Through personal accounts and investigations, Black sets the stage for a compelling argument advocating for substantial reforms in labor practices and protections for vulnerable working populations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75467,500,'Reading ease score: 53.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75467,435);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75467,468);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75468,520,'"Koitereen rannalla: Yksinäytöksinen laulunäytelmä" by Lauri Soini is a one-act musical play written in the early 20th century. Set against the scenic backdrop of Koitere''s shores, this work explores themes of love, societal expectations, and regional culture through the interactions of its characters. The play draws on elements of Finnish folk traditions and presents a vivid portrait of life in a rural community.  The story revolves around Aino, a young woman, who finds herself in a romantic situation involving several suitors: the wealthy Remes and the earnest but poor Eero, son of the local runologist. As Aino grapples with her feelings for Eero, who embodies sincerity and charm, Remes represents societal ambition and wealth. Tension builds as Aino''s struggles with societal expectations and her own feelings culminate in a lively village dance, culminating in her declaration of love for Eero, while also showcasing the conflict between the characters. Ultimately, the play celebrates love and cultural identity while portraying the youthful exuberance of an engaged, spirited community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75468,500,'Reading ease score: 63.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75468,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75468,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75469,520,'"Trading with Mexico" by Wallace Thompson is a comprehensive account of the economic and political landscape of Mexico written in the early 20th century. This work primarily targets American business professionals, aiming to provide an in-depth analysis of the challenges and opportunities present in the Mexican market. Thompson emphasizes the complexities of engaging in trade with Mexico, highlighting both its rich natural resources and significant barriers, particularly the political instability that affects business operations.  At the start of the text, Thompson articulates his advocacy for American businessmen to approach the Mexican trade landscape with a clear, factual understanding instead of reliance on optimism or sentimentality. He outlines three fundamental elements vital for trading effectively in Mexico: the market, credit, and the operation of government and laws. In his opening chapters, Thompson delves into the demographics and the economic reality of Mexico, depicting a largely impoverished population with a tiny consumer base that can afford goods. He further explores the implications of Mexico''s unstable government on credit and business trust, arguing that without a restoration of rights for foreign investments and enterprise, the path to successful trade remains obstructed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75469,500,'Reading ease score: 49.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75469,428);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75469,435);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58014,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wallace_Thompson');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75470,520,'"Das Land unserer Liebe : Roman" by Walter Bloem is a novel written in the early 20th century. This work likely explores themes of social change and personal struggle in post-World War I Germany, focusing on the emotional and societal upheaval as characters confront the aftermath of war and revolution. The story revolves around Georg Freimann, a general director grappling with the loss of his life''s work, the Hansa-Transatlantik-Line, and his son Heinz Freimann, who returns home to a changed world after being a war prisoner.  The opening of the novel introduces the harsh atmosphere of post-war Germany through the perspective of Georg Freimann, who faces the bitter realities of society’s transformation. As he prepares to leave his house, the sentiments of despair and disillusionment take hold, intensified by the arrival of trains filled with returning soldiers and the echoes of revolutionary songs in the air. Georg is depicted struggling between his hope for the future and the stark reality of dwindling prospects, while his son, Heinz, must confront the hostility awaiting him as a former soldier. The narrative establishes a rich backdrop of characters and emotions, setting the stage for a poignant exploration of love, loss, and resilience against the backdrop of a fractured nation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75470,500,'Reading ease score: 74.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75470,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75470,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75471,520,'"Rhoda''s Education; or, Too Much of a Good Thing" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around a young girl named Rhoda Bowers, who is an orphan adopted into a family that begins to show coldness and distance after the arrival of a new baby. As Rhoda navigates school and her relationships, she experiences the struggles of growing up, an education, and feelings of abandonment.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to Rhoda, who is busy crafting clothing for her newborn brother, reflecting her caring nature and desire to contribute to her family. Through encounters with her mother and insights into her background—growing up in an orphanage—we learn about Rhoda''s responsibilities and aspirations for education. The opening chapters illuminate her complex feelings about family dynamics, particularly as her parents'' attention shifts to the new baby. As she prepares to visit her Aunt Hannah, we sense her yearning for knowledge and connection, setting the stage for the conflicts and challenges she will face regarding her identity and place within her adoptive family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75471,500,'Reading ease score: 82.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75471,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75471,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75472,520,'"Vida de Don Quijote y Sancho" by Miguel de Unamuno is an interpretative commentary written in the early 20th century. This work reflects on Miguel de Cervantes''s classic characters, Don Quijote and Sancho Panza, providing a new exegesis of their story and the philosophical implications that arise from their adventures. Unamuno seeks to delve deeper into the essence of these characters, presenting them through a modern lens while preserving their intrinsic qualities.  The opening of this work serves as an introduction, establishing Unamuno''s intent to explore the characters beyond Cervantes''s original narrative. He draws upon the rich literary tradition surrounding Don Quijote and the societal context of his time, emphasizing an ongoing relevance. Unamuno highlights the lack of conventional biographical details in Don Quijote''s life and focuses instead on the profound themes of honor, madness, and the quest for eternal significance that define the character. The first chapter outlines Don Quijote''s backstory, establishing him as an idealist whose reading of chivalric tales fuels his noble yet misguided aspirations, setting the stage for the ensuing adventures and introspective dialogues that characterize the rest of the text. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75472,500,'Reading ease score: 52.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75472,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75472,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75473,520,'"Brazil, the Land of Rubber" is a historical account written in the early 20th century that details Brazil''s rubber industry and its significance during the period surrounding the Third International Rubber and Allied Trades Exhibition in New York in 1912. The text explores Brazil''s position as a leading rubber producer, highlighting the country’s vast natural resources, the process of rubber extraction, and the economic implications for both Brazil and the global market. It serves as a comprehensive overview of the rubber industry in Brazil, emphasizing its historical roots and the challenges it faced.  At the start of the work, the Brazilian pavilion at the New York exhibition is described in detail, showcasing its impressive architecture and exhibits aimed at promoting Brazil''s rubber industry. The opening also features the introduction of various officials, their roles, and an overview of the exhibition''s layout, which includes informative materials, models, and demonstrations of rubber extraction techniques. This passage sets the stage for a more in-depth exploration of the economic landscape of rubber production in Brazil while also touching upon the improvements and regulations instituted by the government to foster the industry’s growth and competitiveness on the world stage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75473,500,'Reading ease score: 52.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75473,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75473,435);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75474,520,'"Three Little Trippertrots: How They Ran Away and How They Got Back Again" by Howard R. Garis is a children''s adventure story written in the early 20th century. The book follows the escapades of three young siblings—Tommy, Johnny, and Mary Trippertrot—as they navigate a series of playful adventures in their city while managing to get lost and eventually find their way home. The whimsical narrative reflects the curiosity and mischief typical of childhood.  The opening portion introduces the Trippertrot children as they decide to sneak out of their house while their nursemaid is distracted. Excited by the prospect of adventure, they explore their neighborhood, encounter various sights, and end up at a toy store where they pretend to choose toys. However, they soon realize they do not know how to return home, leading to a mix of excitement and anxiety as they seek assistance from a friendly policeman. This engaging beginning sets the tone for a lighthearted tale filled with imaginative scenarios and valuable lessons about safety, kindness, and the importance of staying close to home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75474,500,'Reading ease score: 91.7 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75474,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75474,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75475,520,'"The Girl He Left Behind" by Helen Beecher Long is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Ethel Clayton, a capable and ambitious young woman working at the Hapwood-Diller Company, as she navigates her role in the office while facing the impact of World War I on her personal and professional life.   The opening of the novel introduces Ethel Clayton and her colleagues at the Hapwood-Diller Company, highlighting her competence as she handles important business decisions. Frank Barton, the general manager, appreciates Ethel’s abilities and entrusts her with significant responsibilities. As tensions rise with the impending war and the enlistment of local boys, the narrative explores Ethel''s inner conflicts and feelings towards Barton, who is preparing to leave for military service. This initial section sets the stage for a story of personal growth, love, and the challenges women faced during a tumultuous time in history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75475,500,'Reading ease score: 83.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75475,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75475,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75476,520,'"The Poisoned Chocolates Case" by Anthony Berkeley is a mystery novel written in the late 1920s. The story centers around Roger Sheringham, a detective fiction author and president of a crime-themed society called the Crimes Circle. During one of their meetings, he proposes that the Club investigate the mysterious murder of Mrs. Graham Bendix, suggesting that their enthusiasm and intellect could yield results where the police have failed.  The opening portion of the book introduces the Crimes Circle and its members, who are captivated by Sheringham''s proposal to delve into the murder case. The chapter establishes a vibrant atmosphere filled with intellectual camaraderie, where dedicated detectives and writers gather to share theories without the constraints of traditional police work. As they discuss their ideas, Sheringham reveals that the police have given up hope of solving the case, allowing the Circle to take over and pursue their own investigations, laying the groundwork for a classic whodunit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75476,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Poisoned_Chocolates_Case',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75476,500,'Reading ease score: 73.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75476,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75477,520,'"The Sprightly Romance of Marsac" by Molly Elliot Seawell is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around two young men, Marsac and Fontaine, who are struggling journalists living in Paris, and their humorous escapades as they navigate financial difficulties, romantic interests, and the whims of their surroundings. The engaging dialogue and vibrant cast of characters introduce a lighthearted exploration of friendship and the pursuit of love amidst the challenges of their artistic lives.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Marsac and Fontaine, who are desperately trying to avoid paying their rent. In a state of comedic chaos, their landlady Madame Schmid confronts them about their unpaid bills, illustrating their financial troubles. Meanwhile, Marsac''s cheerful and witty demeanor shines through even in dire circumstances. As the plot unfolds, we see the duo concocting outrageous stories and sidestepping various characters, including their alluring landlady, Madame Fleury, who hints at deeper connections and potential romances. The opening section sets the tone for a playful yet poignant narrative, as each character’s motivations and relationships begin to intertwine against the backdrop of Parisian life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75477,500,'Reading ease score: 77.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75477,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75477,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75478,520,'"The Crystal Planetoids" by Stanton A. Coblentz is a science fiction novel written in the early 1940s. The story revolves around the characters Philip Dunbar, Ronald Gates, and Eleanor Firth as they make a horrifying discovery in their laboratory that something otherworldly is affecting the Earth’s atmosphere. When Ronald showcases his invention, the Infra-Red Eye, it reveals invisible creatures and webs in the sky that turn out to be the work of Saturnian invaders.  At the start of the narrative, the three characters are working late at the Merlin Research Institute amidst ongoing strange meteorological phenomena. They are excited yet skeptical about Gates’ invention until Eleanor uses it and sees shocking images of gigantic, octopus-like beings constructing a web in the sky. Shortly after this revelation, they encounter the true danger of these beings, as they are captured and taken by them to one of the Crystal Planetoids, setting the stage for a thrilling confrontation between human ingenuity and alien menace. Gates, primarily focused on his scientific endeavors, must navigate his newfound captivity, while other characters wrestle with moral dilemmas and their complicated relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75478,500,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75478,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75479,520,'"Willow''s Forge, and Other Poems" by Sheila Kaye-Smith is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. This work showcases Kaye-Smith''s distinctive voice and her thematic exploration of love, loss, nature, and the human condition, reflective of her time. The collection offers a range of styles, from traditional ballads to introspective lyrics, that all contribute to a rich tapestry of emotions and experiences.  The poems in "Willow''s Forge" delve deeply into the complexities of love, lamentation, and the interplay between life and death. In the titular poem, for instance, the speaker experiences a haunting connection with a lost love, blending elements of madness and longing. Other pieces, such as "The Ballad of a Motor Bus," capture the vibrancy of urban life with rich imagery, while "The Counsel of Gilgamesh" philosophizes about the eternal search for meaning. Throughout the collection, Kaye-Smith’s vivid imagery and emotional resonance invite readers to reflect on their own encounters with love’s ephemeral nature and the inevitable transience of human existence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75479,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75479,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75480,520,'"Isä Johannes : kangastuskuvia keskiajan lopulta" by Lauri Soini is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set during the late Middle Ages and follows the titular character, Father Johannes, as he navigates the complexities of life as a monk, dealing with themes of faith, duty, and personal relationships against the backdrop of societal and political upheaval.  The opening of the work introduces us to the cloistered life of the monks at a Dominican monastery in Turku. Father Johannes is depicted during a communal meal with fellow monks, where discussions on recent events reflect the struggles of the time, including political tensions in the region. A notable interaction occurs between Johannes and Brother Hincerus, who proposes the monks take a stand on current political matters, which Johannes opposes in favor of focusing on spiritual pursuits. Through these dialogues, we learn about Johannes''s internal struggles with his desires, particularly concerning the concept of womanhood and his visions of an ideal life, setting the stage for his personal conflicts as he embarks on a new chapter of his life as a parish priest in the surrounding countryside. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75480,500,'Reading ease score: 42.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75480,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75480,447);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75481,520,'"Teltantekijän lauselmia" by Omar Khayyam is a collection of epigrams, written during the medieval period, around the 11th to 12th centuries. This work showcases the thoughts and reflections of Khayyam, a renowned Persian poet, philosopher, and mathematician who is best known for his quatrains, called "rubaiyat." The collection delves into themes of love, the fleeting nature of life, and the pursuit of truth and wisdom, often through the metaphor of wine.  The content of "Teltantekijän lauselmia" explores the philosophical and existential musings of Khayyam through brief, impactful verses. Each epigram presents a distinct thought, frequently addressing topics such as the transience of life, the inevitability of death, and the joys of the present moment. Through vivid imagery and poignant language, Khayyam invites readers to reflect on the nature of existence, the importance of living fully, and the power of love. The poet''s voice resonates with both a deep appreciation for beauty and a critical examination of dogma, showcasing his legacy as a profound thinker of his time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75481,500,'Reading ease score: 49.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75481,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75481,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75482,520,'"Maisie''s Merry Christmas" by Nina Rhoades is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around a young girl named Maisie Barton, who faces disappointment during her family''s holiday travels in Europe, particularly since they are away from home at Christmas. A significant part of the narrative focuses on her desire to bring joy to a less fortunate girl, Celeste, who is blind and lives in poverty. The central themes likely explore kindness, generosity, and the spirit of giving during the holiday season.  The opening of the story introduces Maisie at her family''s hotel in Nice, where she expresses her discontent about being away from home for Christmas. Her father suggests that instead of focusing on her own disappointment, she could try to make someone else''s Christmas merry. This leads to Maisie''s desire to give gifts to Celeste, who she discovers is in a difficult situation. As the narrative progresses, the reader sees Maisie shopping for thoughtful gifts to surprise Celeste, highlighting her growth and the importance of empathy. Ultimately, the story promises to convey a heartwarming Christmas message centered around selflessness and the joy of helping others in need. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75482,500,'Reading ease score: 80.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75482,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75483,520,'"Le spectre de M. Imberger" by Frédéric Boutet is a novel written in the early 20th century. This intriguing tale revolves around the mysterious disappearance of M. Imberger, a wealthy man with a peculiar passion for collecting doorknobs and a seemingly tranquil life. The main characters include Barfin, a seasoned detective eager to unravel the complex case, and the titular M. Imberger along with his beautiful young wife, Andrée, who becomes embroiled in the situation.  The opening of the story introduces Barfin as he reflects on his extensive career in the Paris police, marking the complexity of M. Imberger''s case as his most perplexing. M. Imberger is portrayed as an eccentric collector deeply in love with his wife, Andrée, while their nephew Maxence stays with them under peculiar circumstances. The narrative sets the stage for a dramatic night when Andrée, after a costume ball, becomes anxious over her husband''s prolonged absence. As the clock ticks past their typical routines, her worry evolves into despair, leading her to alert the authorities about his disappearance. The initial mystery grows as Barfin begins his investigation, uncovering layers of familial dynamics and potential motives, while the tale hints at the haunting possibility of supernatural elements intertwined with earthly intrigues. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75483,500,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75483,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75483,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75484,520,'"Anthropoid Apes" by Robert Hartmann is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. The work delves into the study of anthropoid apes, focusing on their external and anatomical structures, as well as the history of human acquaintance with these remarkable primates. Hartmann, a professor at the University of Berlin, provides a comprehensive examination of various species, including gorillas, chimpanzees, orangutans, and gibbons, emphasizing their similarities with humans and each other.  The opening of the book outlines the historical context of our understanding of anthropoid apes, dating back to ancient civilizations, such as the Carthaginians, who first documented encounters with these creatures. It discusses significant explorations and scientific observations over the centuries, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of their anatomy and external features. Hartmann introduces early accounts, emphasizes the evolution of knowledge regarding these species, and hints at the anatomical comparisons that will follow in the subsequent chapters, establishing a foundation for the scientific inquiry that characterizes the rest of the text. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75484,500,'Reading ease score: 58.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75484,479);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75484,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75485,520,'"The Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns & Fairies" by Robert Kirk is a unique study in folklore and psychical research written in the late 17th century, specifically centered around Kirk''s observations and beliefs about fairy lore. The text explores the existence and nature of various mythical creatures and spirits, presenting a detailed metaphysical framework for understanding their role in human experience and the natural world.   The opening of the work provides context for understanding the author, Robert Kirk, who was a minister and believed to have been taken by the fairies. It discusses his life, his scholarly focus on the supernatural, and sets the stage for the exploration of the fairy world. It describes the beliefs held by Kirk regarding "Sleagh Maith" or the "Good People," as well as the phenomena related to second sight and the unseen beings inhabiting the natural world around us. Through an introduction that investigates the interplay between folklore, religion, and psychical phenomena, Kirk presents a blend of personal insight and cultural lore, hinting at the complex relationship humans have with the mysteries of the unseen. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75485,500,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75485,470);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58021,'de.wikipedia','https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Lockhart_Bogle');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75486,520,'"Scotch Marriages, vol. 1" by Sarah Tytler is a (historical novel) written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around the intertwined lives of several characters, primarily focusing on the relationships between the laird, Jamie Ramsay of Drumsheugh; his tenant, Jock Home of Balcairnie; and the beautiful and industrious Peggy Hedderwick. As these characters navigate their social standings and personal desires, the themes of love, class distinction, and societal expectations in Scotland during that era are vividly explored.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Jamie and Jock, childhood friends from differing social classes, whose lives begin to entwine around the charming Peggy. Jamie, the laird, is captivated by Peggy''s beauty and virtues, while Jock finds himself in a complicated position, particularly as Jamie''s affections for Peggy grow. The narrative sets up a potential love triangle filled with societal pressures and personal ambitions, illustrating the struggles faced by Peggy as she captures the attention of both men. The opening effectively establishes the primary characters'' backgrounds and hints at the conflicts and romance that will unfold as the story progresses, while also depicting the rural Scottish setting that significantly influences their lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75486,500,'Reading ease score: 70.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75486,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75486,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75487,520,'"Deeds of Heroism and Bravery: The Book of Heroes and Personal Daring" edited by Elwyn A. Barron is a collection of accounts detailing acts of valor during the First World War, likely written in the early 20th century. This anthology showcases various individual stories of courage, including events fought in the trenches, the air, and even naval engagements, celebrating the human spirit in the face of adversity. The book aims to honor both well-known and lesser-known heroes who exhibited extraordinary bravery.  At the start of the anthology, the introduction by Rupert Hughes sets a philosophical tone regarding bravery, highlighting its intrinsic connection to human experience and national identity. Hughes emphasizes the unfairness of fame in wartime, as many brave souls remain unnamed while a select few are celebrated. Various accounts follow, focusing on the boldness of American Marines at Belleau Wood and other battles, along with narratives of exceptional courage displayed by service members from varying backgrounds. The heroes featured are depicted as embodiments of honor, with particular pieces concentrating on both men and women who stood valiantly during critical moments in the war. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75487,500,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75487,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75487,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75488,520,'"The Purple Sickle Murders" by Freeman Wills Crofts is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story centers around Inspector Joseph French, a member of Scotland Yard''s Criminal Investigation Department, as he investigates the mysterious and brutal murder of a young woman named Thurza Darke. The opening portion hints at themes of crime and deception, highlighting both the investigative process and the psychological complexity of the characters involved.  At the start of the narrative, Inspector French is engaged in what seems to be a routine case when he receives a call about a young lady who believes she is in danger. This leads him to meet Thurza Darke, who fears for her life and claims that her friend, Eileen Tucker, had been murdered rather than having committed suicide as reported. As Miss Darke recounts her harrowing experience with a dubious figure named Mr. Style, who bears a scar resembling a purple sickle, the tone shifts from mundane police work to a race against time to solve a potentially dangerous mystery. The opening effectively sets the stage for a gritty exploration of crime and its psychological repercussions, drawing readers into a compelling case of murder and intrigue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75488,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Box_Office_Murders',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75488,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75488,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75489,520,'"Poems by Josephine Daskam Bacon" is a collection of poetry that was likely written in the early 20th century. This book comprises a rich array of poems that touch on themes such as love, motherhood, nature, and loss, showcasing the emotional and imaginative depth of Bacon''s work. The collection reflects the styles and sensibilities of the turn of the century, capturing human experience in both its joys and sorrows.  The poems within this collection explore a wide range of emotions and experiences. Themes of motherhood are poignantly illustrated in verses expressing profound longing and grief. Nature frequently serves as a backdrop, with images of the sea, forests, and changing seasons evoking the beauty and transience of life. The characters range from the tender voice of a grieving mother to nostalgic reflections on childhood and dreams. Overall, the collection is characterized by its lyrical quality and profound resonance with the complexities of the human heart, inviting readers to reflect on their own emotions and experiences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75489,500,'Reading ease score: 89.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75489,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75489,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75490,520,'"D''Eon de Beaumont, His Life and Times" is a historical account compiled chiefly from unpublished papers and letters, written during the early 20th century. The work focuses on the extraordinary life of Charles-Geneviève-Louis-Auguste-André-Timothée d''Eon de Beaumont, a figure known for his dual existence as both a diplomat and a woman, exploring themes of identity, ambition, and the complexities of 18th-century French nobility. This biography provides insight into his remarkable adventures, notably his involvement in secret diplomacy and military service during a tumultuous period in French history.  The opening of the book introduces d’Eon, emphasizing his character and early life, including his ambitions and intellectual pursuits. It details his rise from humble beginnings in Tonnerre to becoming a key player in diplomatic relations between France and Russia, particularly during the reign of Louis XV. His initial accomplishments in the diplomatic service set a foundation for his later adventures where he would famously adopt a female persona, a transformation that was both strategic and scandalous in the context of his life. Overall, the beginning sets the stage for an exploration of d''Eon''s multifaceted identity and life experiences that challenge societal norms of his time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75490,500,'Reading ease score: 50.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75490,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75490,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75491,520,'"Giants in the Earth" by O. E. Rølvaag is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story focuses on the lives of Norwegian immigrants as they journey westward into the Dakota Territory, reflecting the struggles and hopes of pioneer life. Central to the narrative is Per Hansa, who is driven by ambition to carve out a home for his family in a harsh and unforgiving land, alongside his wife, Beret, and their children. This dramatic tale delves into themes of belonging, the challenges of settling new lands, and the deep emotional costs of such an endeavor.  The opening of "Giants in the Earth" presents a vivid description of the wide-open prairie and introduces the caravan of Per Hansa as they journey across the landscape. The caravan consists of Per and his family, traveling in a makeshift wagon with their belongings, including a dairy cow. As they move along, they face uncertainty and hardship, with Per showing a mix of determination and worry about the journey ahead. The narrative captures both the beauty and desolation of the prairie, reflecting Beret''s deepening sense of foreboding as they venture further into the wild, away from civilization. The family dynamic is introduced, showcasing the contrasting hopes and fears of the travelers, setting the stage for the challenges they are likely to encounter as they search for a new home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75491,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giants_in_the_Earth_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75491,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75491,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75491,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75492,520,'"The Dancing Faun" by Florence Farr is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story explores the complexities of social relationships, personal desires, and moral dilemmas through the interactions of a cast of characters, particularly focusing on Lady Geraldine and George Travers. Their discussions reveal themes such as the nature of truth, the facades of society, and the tension between appearances and reality.  At the start of the novel, various characters gather in a drawing-room, setting the stage for a dynamic exploration of societal norms and individual aspirations. The opening conversation hints at Lady Geraldine''s restlessness as she navigates her first season in high society, while Mr. Travers embodies a more cynical worldview. As the narrative unfolds, the arrival of Travers introduces an intriguing element of danger and attraction that will undoubtedly complicate the lives of the characters. The depiction of Lady Geraldine''s relationships, particularly her growing affection for Travers, foreshadows deeper conflicts involving societal expectations, trust, and the pursuit of one''s desires. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75492,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75492,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75492,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75493,520,'"The Lazy Detective" by George Dilnot is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows Divisional Detective Inspector Harry Labar, whose idleness earns him the reputation of being lazy among his peers at Scotland Yard. He gets embroiled in a complex case involving a high-profile jewel heist linked to the enigmatic crime organizer Larry Hughes, while also navigating the complications of his own lethargy and the pressures from his superiors.  At the start of the novel, Inspector Labar faces discontent from his Chief Constable regarding the rising crime rates in his division. Labar''s tenuous position is further complicated when he receives an unexpected bribe in the form of a hundred-pound note handed to him by a mysterious woman in a car. As he begins to investigate the recent burglary at the residence of millionaire Solly Gertstein, it becomes evident that he is dealing with skilled criminals. The narrative introduces suspenseful elements, including potential connections to Hughes and his dubious associates, and hints at a deeper personal entanglement involving Labar and Miss Penelope Noelson, Gertstein’s companion, as they all navigate the disconcerting world of crime and deception. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75493,500,'Reading ease score: 83.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75493,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75493,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75494,520,'"The Workwoman''s Guide" by A Lady is a practical guidebook written in the early 19th century. It offers detailed instructions and advice for women engaged in sewing and making clothing at home, with additional sections on upholstery and domestic crafts. The book particularly targets inexperienced women, such as clergymen''s wives or young married women, providing them with the skills to create both practical and elegant garments for themselves and their families.  The opening portion of the guide begins with a preface that expresses the author''s intention of helping women to master the necessary skills for cutting and sewing garments as well as other household textile tasks. It outlines the philosophy behind the work, emphasizing the importance of these skills for domestic efficiency and economic empowerment. The author introduces the main themes of the book, including patterns for various garments, instructions for needlework techniques, and the importance of neatness and economy in domestic practices. This sets the stage for a comprehensive manual aimed at enhancing the domestic skills of women in various societal roles. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75494,500,'Reading ease score: 81.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75494,452);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75494,439);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75495,520,'" Dolores parka! : Andalusialainen kertomus" by Fernán Caballero is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book captures the lives and emotions of rural families in Andalucia, focusing on their daily struggles, sweet moments, and the deep ties of family. The narrative introduces a variety of characters, including an elderly man and his grandchildren, who return home after a day of labor in the fields.  At the start of the novel, we observe scenes of pastoral life as villagers return home on donkeys, bringing produce and enjoying their family bonds. The narrative shifts to the Lopez family''s idyllic home, illustrating its inhabitants, including an observant and kind old man named Mateo, a sick widow struggling to care for her children, and a lighthearted young boy named Tomasillo, who dreams of a life at sea. As the story unfolds, we begin to see the challenges these characters face, revealing themes of love, duty, and the inevitable hardships of life in rural Spain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75495,500,'Reading ease score: 41.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75495,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75495,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75496,520,'"Työlakko: Näytelmä kolmessa näytöksessä" by Urho Wiljo Walakorpi is a play written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around a labor strike at a factory owned by Patruuna Svensson, delving into the conflicts between the factory workers advocating for better wages and the dismissive attitudes of their employer. The play explores themes of social struggle, class conflict, and the resilience of workers against oppressive strategies from management.  At the start of the play, we are introduced to Patruuna Svensson and Mustaan Perttilä in the factory office, discussing the ongoing strike by the workers. Svensson exhibits a mocking and confident demeanor, believing that the workers will eventually surrender to the pressures of hunger and economic hardship. As the scene unfolds, the laborers, represented by various characters, express their determination to stand firm despite the threats and intimidation from management. The opening establishes a clear divide between the powerful employer and the struggling employees, setting the stage for the unfolding drama of the workers'' fight for dignity and fair treatment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75496,500,'Reading ease score: 47.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75496,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75496,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75497,520,'"The Lady of the Isle; or, The Island Princess" by Mrs. Emma D. E. N. Southworth is a romantic novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative begins with a wedding day, filled with anticipation and excitement, that quickly turns into turmoil, centering around the beautiful Estelle Morelle and Lord Montressor, her intended groom. The story is set against the backdrop of societal expectations and personal struggles, hinting at themes of love, betrayal, and redemption.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Estelle as she prepares for her wedding day. The serene atmosphere filled with floral celebrations soon shifts as tension mounts, and a secret from Estelle''s past is poised to disrupt her impending nuptials. The opening chapters lay the groundwork for a dramatic tale of love, societal pressures, and deep personal turmoil, showcasing Estelle''s melancholy nature and her history, which looms over her happiness. As events unfold, the reader is drawn into the complexities of her relationships and the consequences of past choices, setting the stage for a conflict that challenges the characters'' hearts and morals alike. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75497,500,'Reading ease score: 70.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75497,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75497,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75498,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 67, No. 413, March, 1850" by Various is a historical periodical written in the mid-19th century. This volume presents a range of topics, indicative of the varied interests and societal discussions of the time, including commentary on colonial affairs, military justice, and cultural reflections. The articles seem to address significant political and social issues, especially focusing on the colonies and tensions related to British governance and free trade.  The opening portion of this volume presents a detailed examination of the civil revolution in the Canadas, discussing the historical transformation of the region and the impact of British legislative policies, particularly free trade, on local loyalty and economy. Through a critical perspective, it describes the drastic changes in Canadian sentiment towards British rule, contrasting it with past loyalty in times of conflict. The text delves into specifics of community upheaval, agricultural interests, and how colonists perceived their relationship with Britain, highlighting the consequences of legislative indifference and misguided political philosophies that threaten both the colonies'' stability and their connection to the mother country. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75498,500,'Reading ease score: 61.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75498,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75498,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75499,520,'"The Star Jewels and Other Wonders" by Abbie Farwell Brown is a children''s fantasy collection written in the early 20th century. The book features imaginative stories, including fantastical elements such as mermaids, fairies, and magical adventures. It introduces readers to characters like Wavilocks, a little mermaid whose desire for a starry necklace leads her on an enchanting journey filled with mischief and lessons about contentment.  At the start of the story, we meet Wavilocks, who lives in the depths of the ocean and is spoiled by her father, old Triton. Despite having everything a mermaid could wish for, Wavilocks becomes discontent when she catches sight of the twinkling stars and longs for them as a necklace. Her obsession leads her to the evil Crab, who tempts her into an adventure that challenges her understanding of beauty, greed, and the consequences of her desires. The opening sets a tone of whimsy and moral exploration, hinting at deeper lessons wrapped in enchanting storytelling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75499,500,'Reading ease score: 90.1 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75499,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75499,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75500,520,'"Murder by the Clock" by Rufus King is a detective novel written in the late 1920s. The story centers around Mrs. Endicott, who fears for her husband Herbert''s safety and calls upon the police for assistance, leading to the discovery of a dead body in his room. As the narrative unfolds, Detective Lieutenant Valcour investigates the circumstances surrounding the murder, including the strained relationships and hidden secrets that could provide motives for the crime.  At the start of the story, Mrs. Endicott is consumed with anxiety over her husband, whom she suspects is in danger due to his involvement with a mysterious woman named Marge Myles. As she expresses her concerns to Lieutenant Valcour, tension builds when his investigation reveals various clues, including a threatening note and evidence of a struggle. The chilling discovery of Herbert''s body in the cupboard escalates the urgency of Valcour''s investigation, leading to intricate examinations of marriage dynamics, potential motives for murder, and the shocking twists that lie ahead as the night unfolds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75500,500,'Reading ease score: 76.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75500,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75501,520,'"Gedichte" by Otto Ernst Schmidt is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. This compilation features a variety of poems, including ballads and lyrical pieces that explore themes such as nature, love, life, and the human experience. The opening portion introduces readers to rich narratives and emotional reflections that resonate with the trials and joys of life, presenting characters and situations that evoke a sense of longing and appreciation for both nature and human relationships.  At the start of the collection, readers encounter several poems that establish a vivid atmosphere. The character Nis Randers is depicted as a brave man willing to risk his life to save another from a shipwreck, but his mother''s fierce love tries to keep him safe. This theme of love and sacrifice continues through subsequent pieces such as "Sündflut," where the character Erk Mannis confronts the emptiness left by a catastrophic flood, and "Timm Clasen," which tells of a man''s struggles with fate and rivalries during a fishing excursion. These opening poems not only capture vivid images and emotions but also reflect on the connections between human actions and the forces of nature. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75501,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75501,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75501,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75502,520,'"La Cour d’Assises, ses pompes et ses œuvres" by René Benjamin is a detailed exploration of the French judicial system, written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the complex interplay between law and society, examining both the grandeur and the absurdities of the court, particularly focusing on the Court of Assizes and its trials. Through its rich prose, the narrative investigates the emotional and moral weight of justice, often revealing the farcical aspects of legal proceedings.  At the start of the book, the author sets the scene by painting a vivid picture of Paris, using imagery that describes the city as a tumultuous sea of stone. He introduces the Palais de Justice, a prominent monument symbolizing the power and structure of the legal system, contrasting its physical grandeur with the moral ambiguity often found within its walls. The narrative continues with an invitation to explore the inner workings of the Palais, where the author meticulously describes the environment and the actors involved in the judiciary. He characterizes the judges, lawyers, and the jury with sharp observations, foreshadowing the unfolding drama at the Court of Assizes, where societal values and personal turmoils converge on the legal battleground. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75502,500,'Reading ease score: 83.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75502,457);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75502,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75503,520,'"Knitting: How to Knit and What to Knit" by Marie Louise Kerzman is a practical guide focused on the art of knitting, likely written in the late 19th century. This comprehensive volume is packed with numerous illustrations, detailing various techniques for knitting, types of projects to undertake, and instructions for creating specific items, such as stockings and lace edgings. The content is aimed at both novice and experienced knitters, providing techniques that range from basic stitches to more intricate designs.  The opening of this guide begins with essential information on the materials required for knitting, followed by detailed instructions on how to cast on stitches in various ways. Each method is clearly outlined, supported by illustrations, ensuring that readers can visually comprehend each technique. It also introduces basic stitches like plain knitting and purling, along with troubleshooting tips for common issues faced by knitters. This foundational start sets the stage for a book designed to educate and inspire individuals interested in the craft of knitting. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75503,500,'Reading ease score: 90.8 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75503,452);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75503,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75504,520,'"Gustaf Fröding" by Ida Bäckmann is a biographical narrative written in the early 20th century. This work presents an intimate portrayal of the acclaimed Swedish poet Gustaf Fröding, focusing on the author''s personal experiences and memories with him rather than a chronological account of his life. The book likely explores themes of art, mental health, and personal connections, offering insights into Fröding’s character from the perspective of someone who admired and engaged with him closely.  At the start of the narrative, the author recounts her first encounters with Gustaf Fröding, illustrating her admiration and fascination for him amidst his reputation as a troubled figure in society. The opening chapters introduce readers to the vibrant intellectual environment in Sweden where Fröding garnered both fame and misfortune. Bäckmann describes her attempts to connect with him, the societal skepticism surrounding his lifestyle, and her growing concern as Fröding''s mental health deteriorates over time. This sets the stage for a deeper exploration of Fröding’s internal struggles and the dynamic relationship between the poet and those who sought to support him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75504,500,'Reading ease score: 79.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75504,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75504,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75505,520,'"The Nature of Man: Studies in Optimistic Philosophy" by Élie Metchnikoff is a scientific work written in the early 20th century. The text explores the complexity of human nature, its disharmonies, and the implications of these aspects on morality and society. Metchnikoff delves into various philosophies and scientific discoveries, seeking to understand the fundamental essence of what it means to be human.  At the start of the work, Metchnikoff reflects on the historical context and perspectives surrounding human nature, contrasting ancient Greek rationalism with religious doctrines that degrade it. He notes the general discontentment humanity faces despite scientific advancements, emphasizing the search for a rational foundation for morality grounded in human nature itself. Furthermore, he introduces the idea that disharmonies exist not only within individual humans but also in the natural world, urging a systematic exploration of these themes as foundational for understanding human existence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75505,500,'Reading ease score: 57.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75505,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75505,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75506,520,'"Asphodel: A Novel" by M. E. Braddon is a fiction work written in the late 19th century. The story follows the adventurous and free-spirited Daphne as she escapes the constraints of school life in Asnières to enjoy the beauty of the forest of Fontainebleau, accompanied by her companion Martha Dibb. The narrative hints at themes of youthful exuberance, attraction, and the complexities of social class as Daphne encounters a mysterious stranger, who initially presents himself as an artist but ultimately possesses a deeper identity.  At the start of the novel, Daphne delights in the warmth of a summer day, showcasing her vivacious character as she and Martha discuss their escape from the confines of their school. Daphne exudes charm and mischief, using humor and light-hearted banter with Martha. They meet an unknown stranger in the forest, who engages in playful banter with Daphne and seems to admire her youthful spirit and beauty. The tension between Daphne''s carefree nature and the undercurrents of social propriety is palpable, setting the stage for potential conflict and romance as both girls navigate their interactions with the enigmatic stranger. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75506,500,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75506,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75507,520,'"Pistols for Two" by H. L. Mencken and George Jean Nathan is a collection of character sketches and biographical snippets, likely penned in the early 20th century, specifically around the time of World War I. This book delves into the idiosyncrasies and eccentricities of its subjects, particularly the lives and personalities of the two notable American literary figures, Nathan and Mencken. The primary theme revolves around exploring the complexity of human identity and the intricacies involved in understanding one''s character beyond surface-level perceptions.  The content of "Pistols for Two" consists of a series of detailed and often humorous character sketches that illustrate the personal and professional lives of George Jean Nathan and H. L. Mencken. It showcases their quirks, preferences, and notable achievements in distinctive style, employing a tone that is both witty and insightful. Through various anecdotes and observations, Hatteras shares a glimpse of their editorial work at "The Smart Set" magazine, revealing not only their editorial processes but also their personal philosophies. The book thus serves as both a tribute to the two men and a broader commentary on the nature of biography and criticism, highlighting the notion that understanding individuals involves piecing together fleeting impressions rather than crafting a singular narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75507,500,'Reading ease score: 73.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75507,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75507,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75508,520,'"Life, the Interpreter" by Phyllis Bottome is a novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative explores the complexities of social class and personal sacrifice through its main character, Muriel Dallerton, who struggles between the comforts of her privileged life and her desire to help the less fortunate. The story weaves themes of duty, love, and social expectation, reflecting on the dichotomy of wealth and poverty as experienced through Muriel''s relationships and her philanthropic efforts.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Muriel, who has just decided to dedicate her life to working among impoverished communities, prompting tension with her wealthy uncle and society. The narrative opens with conversations among her friends that hint at Muriel’s internal conflict, showcasing her grit as she interacts with both her affluent friends and the individuals she aims to help. Soon after, we learn about her past connections, especially her tumultuous relationship with Jack Hurstly, who grapples with his own societal role and expectations. The story sets the stage for Muriel''s personal growth and her interactions with various characters, all while painting a vivid picture of the social challenges they face. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75508,500,'Reading ease score: 82.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75508,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75508,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75509,520,'"Carolyn of the Sunny Heart" by Ruth Belmore Endicott is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows a spirited little girl named Carolyn May Cameron, who navigates life in New York City with her dog, Prince. The narrative centers on Carolyn''s interactions with various characters, particularly a pale lady and her baby, exploring themes of innocence, empathy, and adventure.  At the start of the story, Carolyn enjoys a lovely day in Central Park with her dog, where she encounters a pale lady and her thin baby. After an incident where a car nearly collides with them, a wealthy man gives Carolyn a $20 bill to pass on to the pale lady for a new baby carriage. This interaction sets off a chain of events as Carolyn becomes determined to help the lady, reflecting her generous and curious nature. The opening establishes Carolyn''s character, her sense of wonder, and a budding friendship, as she wrestles with the complexities of kindness, poverty, and the understanding of grown-up issues amidst her youthful innocence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75509,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75509,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75510,520,'"Da Sassari a Cagliari e viceversa: guida-racconto" by Enrico Costa is a travel narrative written in the early 20th century. The book offers a unique blend of a guide and a story, detailing the journey from Sassari to Cagliari while incorporating historical insights and practical information for travelers. Through the protagonist''s perspective, the reader is invited to explore Sardinia''s landscapes and customs, enriched with humor and engaging anecdotes.  At the start of the narrative, the protagonist, Cecchino, finds himself dreading his commercial obligations in Sassari while simultaneously resisting familial pressures regarding an arranged marriage with Mariannina, his cousin. The opening sets a humorous tone as Cecchino reflects on his childhood and the misguided affections involving his cousin, laying the groundwork for his journey to Cagliari. As he boards the train, the protagonist vividly describes his surroundings and companions, hinting at budding relationships and the comedic challenges of travel, all while grappling with the haunting expectations of family and destiny. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75510,500,'Reading ease score: 54.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75510,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75510,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75511,520,'"A Lyttel Booke of Nonsense" by Randall Davies is a whimsical collection of humorous verses and limericks published during the early 20th century. This lighthearted book reflects the playful spirit of its time, likely evoking the traditions of children''s literature and light poetry in England. It consists entirely of playful rhymes, showcasing the author''s skill in crafting entertaining nonsense that captivates readers of all ages.  The content of "A Lyttel Booke of Nonsense" features a series of charming limericks that tell amusing tales about various characters, often highlighting their quirky attributes and situations. Each poem introduces a different eccentric personality or scenario, from a young fellow dealing with a fear of the dark to an old fellow struggling with his granddaughter''s suitors. Through clever wordplay and humorous situations, the book invites readers to enjoy the lighter side of life and the joy of language. Ultimately, it serves as a delightful reminder of the whimsical nature of nonsense poetry. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75511,500,'Reading ease score: 69.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75511,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75511,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75512,520,'"The Life and Adventures of a Cat" by Henry Fielding and William Guthrie is a fictional narrative, likely written in the mid-18th century. The story revolves around the character of Tom, a cat with a remarkable life marked by various trials and tribulations, as well as humorous escapades. Through Tom''s adventures, the book explores themes of cleverness, survival, and the complexity of feline nature.  The opening of the tale sets the stage for a whimsical exploration of the characteristics and sagacity of cats, asserting their superiority over other animals through philosophical musings. It introduces Tom''s birth from a lineage of poor but noble cats, detailing the chaos surrounding his early life that sees him lose his siblings and endure hardship in a world where cats must navigate human affairs. As the narrative unfolds, witty commentary and irony permeate the story, painting a rich image of Tom''s exploits and the peculiar societal traits surrounding both humans and their feline companions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75512,500,'Reading ease score: 38.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75512,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75513,520,'"Koulukaskuja" by Ilmari Jäämaa is a collection of humorous anecdotes and short stories written in the early 20th century. The book provides a light-hearted look at the experiences and interactions within a school setting, highlighting the witty remarks and playful banter among students and teachers. It delivers memorable insights into the dynamics of education during that time.  The content of "Koulukaskuja" revolves around a series of vignettes featuring various school scenarios, including conversations between students and their teachers, playful exchanges in the classroom, and humorous incidents that unfold during lessons. The anecdotes often showcase the cleverness and mischief of students, who cleverly navigate the challenges of schooling while providing their own amusing interpretations of educational concepts. Through these playful narratives, the book captures the charm and wit of school life, making it relatable and entertaining for readers of all ages. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75513,500,'Reading ease score: 44.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75513,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75513,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75514,520,'"Näkymätön kirjanpitäjä" by Maila Talvio is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story appears to explore themes of connection to the land, the cycle of seasons, and the dynamics within a rural community, focusing on the life of the protagonist, Samuli Närvi, a humble shoemaker turned landowner. The book intertwines personal and social issues against the backdrop of rural Finnish life, as it likely reflects on the broader context of societal change during turbulent historical periods.  The opening of the novel introduces Samuli Närvi contentedly observing the vibrant arrival of spring from his home, reflecting on his newfound ownership of land that signifies both prosperity and a deep connection to nature. His daughter Eeli is also present, engaged with the garden and a budding relationship with a laborer named Tuomas. However, the tranquility is disrupted by the looming threat of societal unrest as they discuss the impact of political tensions and potential violence that could disrupt their farming plans. The narrative sets up a tension between attachment to the land and the emergence of radical changes in their lives and community, particularly with hints toward future conflicts and personal relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75514,500,'Reading ease score: 53.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75514,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75514,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75515,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 67, No. 415, May, 1850" by Various is a historical periodical written in the mid-19th century. This volume contains various articles discussing political, social, and economic issues of its time, including finance, governance, and the state of nations like Greece and their leadership crises. The content reflects the tumultuous political landscape of 1850, exploring themes pertinent to governance, economic policies, and societal challenges during a period marked by significant reform attempts.  The opening portion primarily discusses British financial policies through the lens of a recent budget presented by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It critiques the government''s handling of the national debt, arguing that despite claims of prosperity, the country has incurred more debt than it has reduced and points out that the measures proposed may only benefit certain classes, particularly manufacturers, at the expense of agricultural interests. The author expresses concern over the sustainability of financial practices and the long-term consequences for governance and national stability, indicating a growing frustration with the political climate and financial management of the era. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75515,500,'Reading ease score: 55.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75515,454);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75515,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75516,520,'"A Book of Dear Dead Women" by Edna Worthley Underwood is a collection of fictional narratives woven through various historical and romantic settings written in the early 20th century. The book features multiple tales, with the opening chapter presenting Countess Tatjana Tschaska, who narrates her experiences as a Polish noblewoman during the early 19th century, capturing tensions surrounding Poland''s fate amidst European conflicts and her impending marriage. The collection seems to explore themes of love, loss, and the interplay of personal aspirations within the broader context of history.  The opening of the book introduces readers to Countess Tatjana as she reflects on the beauty of her homeland and the complexities of her situation. Through her diary entries, readers witness her hopes, fears, and the pressure to marry, all while historical events unfold around her. She grapples with the lingering shadow of the Massacre of Praga and the political aspirations that entwine her family legacy with the fate of her nation. As autumn arrives and the political landscape changes with the rise of Napoleon, Tatjana''s narrative becomes increasingly intertwined with her passionate yet uncertain future. The richness of her emotional depth against a backdrop of war and ambition sets a compelling stage for this collection''s exploration of the lives of women shaped by the tides of history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75516,500,'Reading ease score: 83.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75516,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75516,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75517,520,'"Vingt jours en Tunisie" by Paul Arène is a travelogue written in the late 19th century. The work chronicles the author''s experiences and observations during his time in Tunisia, offering a vivid glimpse into the culture, history, and local life of the region. Through the lens of a French traveler, the narrative explores the interactions between Europeans and the local populations, presenting a blend of humor, history, and personal anecdotes.  At the start of the text, the protagonist, who is preparing for a journey, reflects on the oppressive heat of Tunis in August, where he looks forward to cultural encounters and adventures. His departure from Marseille is filled with a mix of excitement and apprehension as he anticipates discovering a land rich in history. He engages in conversations with friends that reveal local customs and legends, including anecdotes about piracy and the historical significance of certain locations. The journey is packed with sensory experiences, depicting sights, sounds, and tastes that characterize the vibrant culture of Tunisia. The protagonist also encounters a fascinating array of local characters that enrich his understanding of this exotic destination. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75517,500,'Reading ease score: 72.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75517,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75517,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75518,520,'"The Just Steward" by Richard Dehan is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. Set in ancient Alexandria during the reign of Roman Emperor Diocletian, the narrative delves into themes of faith, identity, and social upheaval, focusing on the complex interplay between Christians, Jews, and pagans in a city steeped in cultural diversity. The central character appears to be Hazaël, a Jewish steward, whose relationship with Philoremus, a Roman official accused of Christianity, unfolds against the backdrop of rising tensions and persecution.  The opening of "The Just Steward" vividly paints the bustling atmosphere of Alexandria as it describes the city’s agricultural richness and vibrant trade amidst the scars of past sieges. The narrative introduces key characters, notably Hazaël, who returns to find his master, Philoremus, in grave danger due to accusations of embracing Christianity. As political and religious tensions escalate, Hazaël is determined to support his master, bravely confronting the potential fallout from changing allegiances and the consequences of faith. The reader is instantly drawn into a world where loyalty, sacrifice, and survival are interwoven with themes of divine intervention and hope. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75518,500,'Reading ease score: 78.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75518,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75518,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75519,520,'"The Hunterian lectures on colour-vision and colour-blindness" by F. W. Edridge-Green is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. Delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons of England in February 1911, the book explores the intricate mechanisms of colour vision and the various types of colour blindness, offering insights into both the physiological underpinnings and the practical detection of these visual conditions.  In this work, Professor Edridge-Green outlines his theories on how visual stimuli are processed by the eye and interpreted as colour by the brain. He discusses the structure and function of the retina, particularly focusing on the roles of rods and cones in vision. The book also categorizes different types of colour blindness, explaining how individuals perceive colour differently based on their unique visual systems. Edridge-Green emphasizes the necessity for accurate testing methods to identify colour blindness, proposing various examination techniques, including a lantern test he developed, which becomes a key tool in identifying and understanding this condition. Overall, the lectures serve as a comprehensive resource for understanding the science behind colour perception and the implications of its deficiencies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75519,500,'Reading ease score: 57.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75519,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75519,478);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75520,520,'"Longshanks" by Stephen W. Meader is a historical novel written in the late 1920s. The story follows a young boy named Thaddeus "Tad" Hopkins as he embarks on a journey from Wheeling Town to New Orleans in the company of a steamboat crew. Set against the backdrop of the American frontier, the book seems to explore themes of adventure, personal growth, and the challenges one faces in a rapidly changing world.  The opening of the narrative introduces Tad as he arrives in Wheeling, filled with excitement about the adventures that lie ahead. Upon reaching the General Jackson Inn, he faces the initial challenge of finding a place to stay; the tavern-keeper is less than helpful. As tension builds, we see glimpses of Tad''s character—his resourcefulness and determination to travel south to meet his father, whose letter has sparked this journey. From meeting various characters in the tavern to securing passage on the steamboat Ohio Belle, the beginning sets a vibrant scene filled with colorful descriptions of frontier life and hints at the adventures, along with potential dangers, that Tad will undoubtedly encounter as the story unfolds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75520,500,'Reading ease score: 89.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75520,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75520,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75521,520,'"Les gràcies de l''Empordà" by Pere Coromines is a lyrical and evocative collection of reflections and essays written in the early 20th century. The book celebrates the rich cultural heritage, landscapes, and people of the Empordà region in Catalonia, illustrating how deeply intertwined his identity is with his homeland. Through various "gràcies" or virtues, Coromines articulates the beauty of the land and its inhabitants, emphasizing romanticism and nostalgia for the simplicity of rural life.  The book unfolds through a series of thirty-two vignettes, each portraying a different aspect of the Empordà: from the character and spirit of its people to the landscapes, traditions, and culinary delights that define the region. Coromines uses a personal narrative style, weaving his own experiences with historical and cultural observations, creating a tapestry that connects past and present. Themes of nature, familial bonds, and the essence of being rooted in one''s homeland are prevalent, ultimately inviting readers to appreciate the profound connection between identity and place in their own lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75521,500,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75521,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75521,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75522,520,'"The Soldier''s Orphans" by Ann S. Stephens is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative revolves around the struggles of a family dealing with poverty during a tumultuous time marked by war. Central characters include Anna Burns and her young brothers, Robert and Joseph, who endure hardship while waiting for news about their father, a soldier engaged in battle.  The opening portion introduces us to the grim living conditions of Anna and her family, who have been reduced to living in a garret in Philadelphia. We see poignant scenes highlighting their resourcefulness and familial love, such as the children gathering oyster shells, which they hope to share, and the old grandmother''s attempts to provide for them through sewing, despite her own physical frailty. Tension escalates with the news of a recent battle involving their father, prompting Robert to seek out news desperately, leading him to a wealthy woman who ultimately provides aid to the destitute family. This opening deftly sets the stage for a story of resilience against the backdrop of war and social disparity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75522,500,'Reading ease score: 82.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75522,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75522,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75523,520,'"The Achievements of Luther Trant" by Edwin Balmer and William MacHarg is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The book follows the character of Luther Trant, a young psychologist and aspiring detective, as he employs advanced psychological methods to solve crimes, highlighting the intersection of science and investigation. The narrative focuses on Trant''s efforts to clear an innocent man''s name following a suspicious death that suggests suicide and financial misdeeds.  At the start of the story, Trant, alongside Professor Reiland, discusses the inadequacies of traditional criminal investigation methods, expressing his belief that psychological principles can lead to faster resolutions of criminal cases. This leads to the urgent discovery of Dr. Lawrie’s lifeless body in his office, raising questions about the cause of death and the implication of suicide due to financial ruin. Trant’s determination to prove Lawrie''s innocence and uncover the truth drives the narrative, as he navigates a web of suspicion involving university associates, deftly using his knowledge of psychological tests to reveal deeper truths. The opening sets the stage for a thrilling exploration of human behavior and the complexities of justice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75523,500,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75523,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75523,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75524,520,'"The Roving Critic" by Carl Van Doren is a collection of essays and literary critiques written in the early 20th century. The work delves into the nature of criticism, exploring its various dimensions and the importance of vibrancy and life in literature. Van Doren examines notable figures in literature and their impact on society, emphasizing how literature reflects the human experience beyond mere adherence to morality, truth, or beauty.  The opening of "The Roving Critic" introduces the concept of a fourth dimension of criticism, which is the vital question of whether literature is "alive." Van Doren proposes that the essence of great literature lies not solely in its goodness, truthfulness, or beauty, but in its ability to convey a sense of vibrant life. He discusses how many works, despite their moral flaws, resonate profoundly because they embody the human experience. The text also hints at the evolution of literary critique, setting the stage for deeper explorations of poetic and narrative forms across cultures and time. Overall, the beginning establishes the analytical lens through which Van Doren discusses various literary figures, suggesting a profound connection between the critic''s engagement with the text and the life force inherent in the literary work itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75524,500,'Reading ease score: 61.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75524,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75524,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75525,520,'"Die vom Niederrhein: Roman" by Rudolf Herzog is a novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative seems to explore life around the Rhine, capturing the essence of the region through the characters'' interactions and the local festivities. The protagonist, Hans Steinherr, appears to be a young man discovering his identity and the world around him amidst the backdrop of the Niederrhein’s culture and traditions.  The opening of the novel paints a vivid and atmospheric scene along the Rhine River, characterized by rainy weather that dampens the environment yet adds a touch of introspection to the characters'' experiences. We are introduced to Hans Steinherr, a sensitive youth captivated by the beauty of his surroundings. As the narrative unfolds, he engages with various local characters, including a humorously lethargic boatman and his wife. The bustling preparations for a local festival serve as a backdrop to Hans''s internal journey, hinting at themes of youthful exuberance, societal expectations, and the search for artistic identity. Through encounters with companions and reflections on his desires, Hans begins to navigate the complexities of adolescence and artistic aspirations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75525,500,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75525,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75525,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75526,520,'"The Victim and The Worm" by Phyllis Bottome is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Oliver P. Brett, an American inventor settled in England, reflecting on his life and the complexities of his family dynamics, particularly regarding his two daughters, Elise and Hermione. The themes of loss, love, and the struggles of interpersonal relationships set the stage for a deeper exploration of characters affected by past traumas and current choices.  The opening of the novel introduces Oliver P. Brett, who is contemplating life under the shade of a yew tree and reminiscing about his deceased wife, Theodora. He feels a sense of detachment and exhaustion after the war, portraying a complex character who navigates his grief while maintaining a particular expectation of his daughters. As he reflects on the nuances of war, family loyalty, and the weight of relationships, readers get a glimpse of his daughter Elise''s juxtaposition with her strong-willed sister Hermione, whose troubled marriage casts a shadow over their family life. The stage is set for intense drama and emotional revelations, emphasizing the intricacies of familial love and the shadows of unresolved conflict that will undoubtedly unfold throughout the narrative. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75526,500,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75526,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75527,520,'"Poems by Marie Van Vorst" is a collection of poetry published in the early 20th century. This volume encapsulates a range of themes, from nature and love to loss and longing, reflecting the emotional depth and lyrical beauty characteristic of the period. Van Vorst’s work exhibits a delicate sensibility, often intertwining personal experiences with broader existential musings.  The collection features varied poetic forms, including lyrical pieces, rondels, and sonnets, all marked by a rich use of imagery and emotive language. Key poems such as "The Song of the Wheat," which celebrates the life of plants and the cycles of nature, and "Laurels Villa," dealing with love and loss, showcase her ability to traverse both light and dark emotional landscapes. Through vivid descriptions of seasonal changes and profound reflections on love, the poems create a tapestry of experiences, ultimately exploring the essence of human connection and the poignancy of transient moments. Marie Van Vorst''s work invites readers to engage with the beauty and complexity of life, making it a resonant exploration for poetry enthusiasts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75527,500,'Reading ease score: 87.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75527,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75528,520,'"Essays towards the History of Painting" by Lady Maria Callcott is a scholarly work that takes an in-depth look into the evolution of painting, written in the early 19th century. The primary focus of this work is the historical and cultural development of painting across various civilizations, from ancient Egypt through to Italy, examining numerous facets such as materials, techniques, and influential artists. This essay addresses the complexities of the art form and advocates for a greater understanding of its history and significance.  At the start of the text, the author reflects on the recommendation made by a friend to undertake a project to alleviate her ailments by engaging in writing. The opening portion sets a tone of personal dedication mixed with scholarly intent, introducing the themes of loss, healing through creativity, and a search for knowledge. Callcott contemplates the necessity for artists to possess both practical skill and theoretical understanding to contribute meaningfully to the art world. She also critiques existing views on art, suggesting that a blend of historical studies and contemporary practices can enhance appreciation and professionalism in painting. Overall, the beginning emphasizes the profound relationship between art, civilization, and human expression. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75528,500,'Reading ease score: 61.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75528,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75528,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75529,520,'"Deirdre Wed and Other Poems" by Herbert Trench is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The book explores themes of love, longing, and myth, centering on the poignant tale of Deirdre, a character steeped in Irish folklore. Trench''s lyrical style channels the poetic traditions of the past while addressing timeless emotions and human experiences.  The collection is anchored by the narrative poem "Deirdre Wed," which recounts the tragic love story of Deirdre and Naois, set against the backdrop of ancient Ireland. Through a series of vivid and evocative verses, the poem details Deirdre''s betrothal to the king Connachar and her deep, irrevocable love for Naois, ultimately leading to heart-wrenching decisions and themes of destiny versus choice. The other poems in the collection touch upon various aspects of nature, mortality, and the beauty of fleeting moments, showcasing Trench''s mastery of imagery and his ability to weave emotional depth into his work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75529,500,'Reading ease score: 80.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75529,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75529,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75530,520,'"A High Wind in Jamaica" by Richard Hughes is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in Jamaica during the time of Emancipation and provides a vivid portrayal of the aftermath of colonialism, particularly through the eyes of a family living on a decaying plantation. The focus is on the Bas-Thornton family, especially the children, as they navigate their childhood in a landscape marked by both beauty and decay.  At the start of the novel, the reader is introduced to the crumbling remnants of plantation life post-Emancipation. Specific focus is given to Derby Hill, once a prosperous estate, now overgrown and barely inhabited by the aging Miss Parkers. We see glimpses of life on a neighboring estate, Ferndale, highlighting the chaotic yet adventurous existence of the Bas-Thornton children amidst the backdrop of nature and remnants of the past. The children engage in exploration and play, reflecting both the innocence of childhood and the stark realities of their environment, such as encounters with local flora and fauna, the remnants of an unjust social order, and the deep inequalities embedded in Jamaican society. Such contrasting images set the stage for a rich narrative exploring themes of innocence, colonial history, and the clash between the world of children and the harsh adult realities surrounding them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75530,500,'Reading ease score: 79.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75530,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75530,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75531,520,'"Ladies'' Dress Shoes of the Nineteenth Century" by T. Watson Greig is a historical account published in the early 20th century. This book focuses on the evolution of ladies'' footwear during the 19th century, showcasing the artistry and craftsmanship involved in shoemaking of that era. With a collection of sixty-three illustrations, Greig offers a visual journey through varying styles that reflect the changing fashion sensibilities of women during this period.  The content of the book presents detailed descriptions and illustrations of different shoes worn by notable ladies of the 19th century, highlighting key design elements such as materials, shapes, and embellishments. Each shoe is accompanied by background information about its owner and context, providing readers with insights into the fashion trends of the time. The text artfully combines aesthetics with social commentary, illustrating how these fashionable items were integral to the identity and status of women during the 19th century. Overall, Greig''s work serves as both an appreciation of historical fashion and a reference for modern shoemakers and enthusiasts interested in the period''s design intricacies. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75531,500,'Reading ease score: 71.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75531,439);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75531,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75532,520,'"Sonderlinge" by Peter Rosegger is a collection of character sketches written in the early 20th century. The work presents a variety of unique and eccentric figures, referred to as "Sonderlinge," who embody diverse life experiences, quirks, and philosophies. Through humor and compassion, the author explores the depth of human nature and relationships, showcasing both the endearing and the peculiar aspects of these individuals.  At the start of "Sonderlinge," the author sets the stage by reflecting on the collective nature of humanity, stating that while many appear similar at a distance, each individual is an original with distinct traits shaped by personal circumstances. The opening portion includes anecdotes about a character named Karl, who, despite his physical prowess and size, struggles with social expectations and personal desires. Karl’s interactions reveal his innocent and humorous nature, illustrating the themes of acceptance and the complexity of social identity as he navigates societal roles and his aspirations, particularly relating to love and work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75532,500,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75532,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75532,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75533,520,'"Greek Wayfarers and Other Poems" by Edwina Stanton Babcock is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The poems draw inspiration from Greek history, myth, and contemporary life, exploring themes of beauty, struggle, and cultural identity. The collection likely reflects the author''s admiration for Greece, depicting both ancient and modern aspects of the country''s spirit and landscape.  At the start of the work, the author establishes a deep connection to Greece, mentioning the country''s natural beauty and the significance of its people in preserving cultural heritage. The opening poems introduce various themes, including the powerful imagery of the Amazons, reflections on pivotal historical moments, and settings that span both mythological and contemporary Greek life. Babcock''s lyrical style evokes a sense of wonder and reverence for the complexities of Greek identity and the timelessness of human experience, setting a stage for further explorations of Greek culture throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75533,500,'Reading ease score: 76.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75533,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75533,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75534,520,'"The Nile Quest" by Sir Harry Johnston is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work documents the exploration of the Nile River and its basin, focusing on the significant discoveries made from ancient times through the late 19th century by various explorers. The narrative highlights the adventures and challenges faced by these explorers while seeking the sources of the Nile, showcasing the profound curiosity that drove these journeys.  The opening of "The Nile Quest" provides a fascinating backdrop to the tale of human exploration, tracing the early inquiries into the geography of the Nile dating back thousands of years. It discusses the migrations of various human species into the region, presents the ancient connections between Egypt and other peoples, and outlines the nascent interest of Greek and Roman civilizations in the mysteries of the Nile. Additionally, it introduces the impact of later explorations by Arabs and Europeans who ventured into the Nile basin, setting the stage for a comprehensive examination of the storied quest for the river''s source. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75534,500,'Reading ease score: 64.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75534,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75534,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75535,520,'"Onni maallinen : Murhenäytelmä" by Lauri Haarla is a dramatic play written in the early 20th century. This work unfolds in the ancient city of Palmyra, during a time steeped in historical and cultural richness, focusing on themes of power, love, and societal conflict. At its heart is the character Zenobia, the Queen of Palmyra, who grapples with the challenges posed by her political landscape and a complex relationship with her son, Athenodorus.  The opening of "Onni maallinen" introduces us to the characters and setting within a grand terrace of Tadmor''s palace, establishing a vibrant yet turbulent atmosphere. The narrative begins with Athenodorus, a sickly prince, who appears hopeful and in pursuit of love amid the instability of his surroundings. As he interacts with his caretaker Lankha, hints of romantic longing and the pressures of royal expectations are introduced. Meanwhile, the queen, Zenobia, faces challenges against the backdrop of impending conflict and political strife, setting the stage for further drama as rumors and tensions unfold within a populace restless for change. The dynamic introduced in these early scenes promises intricate relationships and escalating stakes in the play. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75535,500,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75535,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75535,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75536,520,'"Vanhankansan tapoja ja taikoja" by A. Th. Böök is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the traditions, customs, and folklore of the Central Häme region of Finland during the 19th century, presenting an extensive range of information about celebrations, agricultural practices, and community life. The book offers a glimpse into the cultural heritage of the area, showcasing how the local populace engaged with the natural world and each other through these practices.  The opening of "Vanhankansan tapoja ja taikoja" sets the stage for an exploration of local customs and festive occasions, beginning with a personal reflection from the author about his own experiences growing up in Häme. He recalls the peculiar and often mystical traditions observed in his community, emphasizing the importance of these memories in understanding the historical and cultural identity of the region. The initial sections detail various celebrations such as Christmas and New Year, illustrating the rituals and festivities that characterized these events, alongside the associated folklore and superstitions that were integral to the social fabric of the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75536,500,'Reading ease score: 33.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75536,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75536,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75537,520,'"Wurra-Wurra: A Legend of Saint Patrick at Tara" by Curtis Dunham is a historical legend written in the early 20th century. This narrative combines elements of folklore and religious tradition, focusing on the life and mission of Saint Patrick as he attempts to convert Ireland from paganism to Christianity. The book intertwines the historical context of early Irish spirituality, particularly through the lens of the conflict between Saint Patrick and the old pagan deities, with an engaging storytelling style.  The story revolves around Keth Mac Maragh, a strong man and devoted follower of Saint Patrick, who is driven by love for Finola of the White Shoulder and a desire to confront the idol Wurra-Wurra. As Keth journeys to cast down this pagan deity, he encounters various trials, including treachery from the wizard Lochru and the influence of demonic forces. Throughout his quest, Keth''s faith and courage are tested, culminating in a profound realization about the nature of worries and burdens represented by Wurra-Wurra. Ultimately, the tale weaves a lesson about faith, sacrifice, and the power of compassion, as Keth learns not only to confront the idol but also to care for those in distress, symbolizing broader themes of redemption and divine intervention in the face of adversity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75537,500,'Reading ease score: 74.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75537,448);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75537,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75538,520,'"Bog-Land Studies" by J. Barlow is a collection of stories written in the late 19th century. This work presents a vivid portrayal of life in rural Ireland, particularly focusing on themes of loss, community, and the intimate connections between people and their landscape. Through its characters and narrative voice, the book delves into the emotional and physical struggles faced by its inhabitants, reflecting on both personal and societal challenges.  The opening of "Bog-Land Studies" introduces us to the reflective voice of a villager lamenting the loss and gradual decline of life in their community, especially regarding their treasured connections to the land and the ocean. It sets the stage with the memories of the “ould master” and his son, Denis, who leaves for Australia, leaving a void and initiating a series of misfortunes for the community. As Denis’s absence becomes palpable, the narrative recounts the changing seasons and the ensuing troubles, illustrating how the passage of time affects both the landscape and the people tied to it, all while casting a somber tone over the rural existence marked by uncertainty and longing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75538,500,'Reading ease score: 72.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75538,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75538,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75539,520,'"From the Four Winds" by John Sinjohn is a collection of stories written in the late 19th century. The opening tale introduces a group of characters gathered on a tropical verandah, where they share their experiences and observations, particularly focused on a man named Synge who is departing from their company. Themes of isolation, friendship, and an underlying sense of foreboding begin to emerge, hinting at deeper personal and social narratives.  At the start of "The Running Amok of Synge Sahib," the atmosphere is one of camaraderie mixed with an unsettling undertone. The characters engage in lively banter about their surroundings, expressing both fondness and envy for the island life. However, as the night progresses, an anxious tension becomes apparent, particularly through the interactions between Hay, Synge, and Mrs. Hay. When Hay shares a disturbing story from his time in the Fijis, focusing on Synge''s untold struggles with isolation and a violent episode involving a kriss, the mood shifts dramatically. This tale sets the stage for a profound exploration of madness, the impact of loneliness, and perhaps foreshadows impending tragedy. The character dynamics are revealed through their dialogues, underscoring the themes of friendship and the complexities of human experience in remote settings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75539,500,'Reading ease score: 75.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75539,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75539,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75540,520,'"Pieter Bruegel the Elder: A Study of His Paintings" by Virgil Barker is an art book published in the early 20th century, specifically in the 1920s. This scholarly publication delves into the life and works of Pieter Bruegel the Elder, a renowned painter from the Northern Renaissance known for his detailed landscapes and peasant scenes. The book likely aims to explore the themes, techniques, and historical context of Bruegel''s artwork, providing insight into his contributions to art history.  The book offers an in-depth analysis of Bruegel''s paintings, discussing his unique ability to capture the essence of human life and nature in his work. Barker examines the artist''s upbringing, his influences, and the socio-political milieu of the 16th century that shaped his perspectives. Through detailed descriptions and criticisms of several of Bruegel''s notable pieces, including "The Harvesters," "The Peasant Dance," and "Children''s Games," the text highlights the blend of realism and fantasy that characterizes Bruegel''s art. Barker also emphasizes the narrative quality of Bruegel''s paintings, which often depict complex human interactions set against the backdrop of rural life. Overall, the study serves as both an appreciation of Bruegel''s artistry and as a valuable resource for understanding the cultural significance of his work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75540,500,'Reading ease score: 55.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75540,426);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75540,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75541,520,'"Jungen: Vierzehn Geschichten von kleinen ganzen Kerlen" by Hans Aanrud is a collection of short stories likely written in the early 20th century. This work explores the lives and experiences of young boys, capturing their adventures and challenges as they navigate through childhood in a rural setting. The stories highlight themes of friendship, growing up, and the simple joys and hardships of youth, potentially centering around relatable young characters."  "The opening of the collection introduces us to Tor, an eight-year-old boy who is about to begin his service as a "Gemeindejunge" (parish boy) at Opsal. On a bright spring morning, Tor is filled with a mix of excitement and nostalgia as he reflects on his recent departure from his home in Stubsveen. He experiences a moment of uncertainty as he arrives at Opsal, contemplating the changes in his life and missing his friend Ane. The narrative captures his innocent curiosity and apprehension as he meets the farmer Opsal, leading to the beginning of new experiences and challenges that will shape his childhood." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75541,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75541,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75541,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75542,520,'"The Coins of India" by C. J. Brown is an informative historical account written in the early 20th century. This work serves as an introductory guide to the evolution of coinage in India, focusing primarily on the development of its historical significance as a reflection of economic, social, and political movements. The text appears to target both Indian readers and numismatic enthusiasts interested in understanding the rich heritage of Indian coins and their role in the broader context of history.  At the start of the book, the author outlines the purpose of the volume and the methodology behind its creation. Brown emphasizes the need to generate interest among Indians regarding their ancient coinage, presenting coins as valuable historical artifacts rather than mere currency. He introduces the evolution of early Indian coinage from barter systems to stamped metal currency, highlighting notable forms such as punch-marked coins and the influence of various historical rulers in the development of coinage styles. Through this introduction, readers are invited to appreciate the coins not only as collectors'' items but as important elements reflecting India''s rich and complex history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75542,500,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75542,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75542,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75543,520,'"An Illustrated Commentary on the Gospel According to St. John" by Lyman Abbott is a religious commentary written in the late 19th century. This volume aims to provide insights and explanations of the text of the Gospel, making it accessible for family use and for Christian workers across various denominations. With a focus on clarifying the principles that Jesus Christ sought to convey, it is structured as an educational tool for those engaged in Christian work, including ministers, teachers, and lay preachers.  The opening of the commentary presents the preface where Abbott outlines the objectives and methodology of his work. He emphasizes the intention to assist readers in understanding the core messages of the Gospel, presenting interpretations that prioritize clarity over scholarly controversy. Abbott indicates that the commentary will contain detailed notes and illustrations, focusing on the practical application of John''s teachings rather than devotional sentiment. He expresses hope that readers will glean genuine insights into the nature of Christ and deepen their understanding of the Christian faith through this structured exploration of the Gospel according to St. John. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75543,500,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75543,470);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75543,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75544,520,'"Peer Gynt: Draamallinen runoelma" by Henrik Ibsen is a dramatic poem written in the late 19th century. This play explores the life and adventures of the titular character, Peer Gynt, a man who embodies the struggle between reality and fantasy, seeking meaning and identity in a world filled with contradictions and illusions. The storyline features various characters, including his mother Åse and his love interest Solveig, as it unfolds across diverse settings, from rural Norway to fantastical realms.  At the start of "Peer Gynt," we are introduced to Peer, a boastful young man who engages in tall tales and fabrications, provoking both admiration and frustration from his mother, Åse. The opening scenes depict a tense exchange between them, highlighting Peer''s penchant for exaggeration, particularly regarding a hunting story. Åse, worried and exasperated, scolds Peer for his irresponsible behavior and lack of ambition, setting the tone for her protective yet critical relationship with him. The dialogue gives an early sense of Peer''s character—passionate, reckless, and filled with dreams of grandeur—but it also foreshadows the tumultuous journey ahead as he navigates love, identity, and the pursuit of acceptance in society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75544,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer_Gynt https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer_Gynt',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75544,500,'Reading ease score: 63.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75544,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75544,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75545,520,'"The Romance of Comets" by Mary Proctor is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work explores the fascinating history and characteristics of comets, detailing humanity''s evolving perceptions of these celestial phenomena from superstitious fears to scientific understanding. Through engaging narratives and historical anecdotes, Proctor captures the allure and mystery of comets, intertwining scientific facts with cultural and folkloric significance.  At the start of the book, Proctor sets the tone by discussing how ancient societies viewed comets as omens of disaster, citing historical accounts and literary references. The opening chapter delves into various historical interpretations of comets, illustrating the shift in perspective brought about by advancements in scientific knowledge. Notably, the preface also acknowledges the contributions of astronomers like Professor E. E. Barnard, emphasizing the collaborative nature of comet research. This blend of science, history, and lyrical prose invites readers into the enchanting world of comets, promising both thrilling stories and insightful discoveries about these spectacular visitors from the cosmos. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75545,500,'Reading ease score: 60.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75545,474);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75545,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75546,520,'"The Real Mackay" by Donald A. Mackenzie is a one-act play that paints a vivid picture of life in a Scottish Highlands crofter''s cottage. Written during the early 20th century, the play explores themes of love, societal class, and familial bonds. Set against the backdrop of a serene and picturesque environment, it focuses on the interactions between characters as they navigate personal struggles in a tight-knit community.  The narrative centers around Widow Mackay and her daughter Màiri, who have faced personal losses and must contend with societal expectations. Màiri grapples with her feelings for Sandy Speedwell, a young artist and poet, who comes from a different social class, complicating their relationship. As misunderstandings arise—particularly involving Sandy’s mother—tensions mount until a moment of reconciliation allows the characters to confront their conflicts. The play culminates in a poignant resolution, highlighting the enduring nature of love and forgiveness amidst the constraints of class and social conventions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75546,500,'Reading ease score: 86.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75546,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75546,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75547,520,'"Beauvallet" by Georgette Heyer is a historical novel set in the late 19th to early 20th century. The story follows Sir Nicholas Beauvallet, a daring English freebooter, who engages in a fierce naval battle with a Spanish galleon, the "Santa Maria". Amidst this tumultuous backdrop, Beauvallet encounters Doña Dominica, the spirited daughter of the galleon''s captain, leading to a blend of adventure and romance as he vows to win her heart.  The opening portion introduces us to the chaos of battle on the high seas, where the Spanish ship is under assault from Beauvallet''s vessel. As the fight becomes increasingly desperate, we witness the formidable prowess of Beauvallet and his crew as they board the galleon, showcasing his bravado and skill. Dominica emerges as a strong character, caught between the threat of the pirates and an undeniable connection to Beauvallet, who seizes the opportunity to make a bold claim about his intentions toward her. This tension sets the stage for a spirited tale that promises a mix of danger, romance, and humor as the characters navigate their fates entwined on the turbulent waters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75547,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beauvallet',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75547,500,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75547,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75547,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75548,520,'"A Time of Terror: The Story of a Great Revenge (A.D., 1910)" by Douglas Morey Ford is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative centers around the themes of justice, revenge, and social unrest in London, revolving primarily around the characters of Marcus White and his father, Michael White, who faces accusations of treason. As the story unfolds, it grapples with the complexities of law, societal injustice, and the conditions that lead to revolutionary fervor."  "At the start of the novel, we are introduced to a tense courtroom scene in which Michael White is on trial for allegedly attempting to incite a rebellion against the Crown. His son, Marcus White, watches in rage and despair as the legal machinations unfold and he grapples with feelings of personal and collective injustice, fueling his desire for revenge against those he holds responsible for his father''s plight. The opening sets the stage for a brewing conflict that will intertwine personal vendetta with broader societal issues, laying essential groundwork for the turmoil and changes that London faces in the narrative ahead." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75548,500,'Reading ease score: 68.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75548,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75548,457);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75549,520,'"Légendes canaques" by Georges Baudoux is a collection of ethnographic narratives written in the early 20th century. The book provides an in-depth look at the customs, beliefs, and daily lives of the Kanak people of New Caledonia, using a narrative style that emphasizes authenticity and firsthand experience. Baudoux aims to portray the essence of these indigenous people, shedding light on their rich oral traditions and social structures.  The opening portion of the text introduces readers to the author''s motivations and his observations during his time spent with the Kanak tribes. He discusses the uniqueness of their culture, emphasizing the contrasts between "primitive" and modern societies, and the challenges of truly understanding another culture. Through a narrative that blends personal experience with cultural analysis, Baudoux begins to relay the legend of Kaavo, depicting the beauty and vibrancy of Kanak life as he sets the stage for the deeper stories and folklore that follow. The character Kaavo, the daughter of a chief, is introduced as she embarks on a morning adventure to collect grasshoppers, symbolizing not only her connection to her environment but also the simplicity and pleasures of daily life in her culture. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75549,500,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75549,432);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75549,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75550,520,'"Poppy Ott and the Stuttering Parrot" by Leo Edwards is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Poppy Ott, a boy embroiled in a series of adventures involving a stuttering parrot and the quirky characters of his small town, Tutter. With hints of mystery and humor, the narrative invites readers into the lively escapades of Poppy and his new friends, touching on themes of friendship, curiosity, and the ups and downs of growing up.  At the start of the novel, readers are introduced to Jerry Todd, who narrates the story alongside his friends, including the enigmatic new kid, Poppy. As the boys head out for a summer morning swim, they stumble upon Poppy''s unconventional family, which includes his father, who fancies himself a detective. With the unfolding of Poppy''s family life, Jerry’s curiosity leads him to wonder about the peculiar happenings surrounding them, especially when a stuttering parrot appears in the mix. The opening sets a whimsical tone filled with spirited dialogue and humor, establishing the foundation for a larger mystery regarding the black parrot that ties back to Poppy''s father and their ranch-like existence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75550,500,'Reading ease score: 94.2 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75550,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75550,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75551,520,'"Reminiscences of the South Seas" by John La Farge is a travel narrative written in the early 20th century, capturing the author''s experiences and observations during his journey through the Pacific Islands. La Farge, a painter and writer, illustrates not only the beautiful landscapes and cultures he encounters but also shares reflections on life and nature that enrich his storytelling. Through this work, readers can expect a vivid and personal exploration of the South Seas, blending art and literature.  The opening of the narrative sets the stage for La Farge’s journey, beginning as he departs from San Francisco. He captures the contrast between the familiar city life and the adventure that awaits him in the tropical lands he is heading towards. As he describes his thoughts aboard the ship, La Farge offers sensory impressions of the sea, sky, and the people he encounters—his keen observational skills allow readers to almost visualize the vibrant scenes. The narrative quickly delves into the lush environments of Hawaii, highlighting the unique cultural interactions and the picturesque beauty La Farge finds along the way, all while contemplating the deeper meanings of his experiences in this serene, yet foreign, world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75551,500,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75551,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75551,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75552,520,'"Wild Oats" by James Oppenheim is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds primarily around the lives of Doctor Rast, his wife Nell, and their son David, capturing the vibrancy of life and familial bonds in New York''s East Side during the spring. It delves into themes of love, innocence, and the socio-cultural challenges faced by immigrant families, emphasizing the human experience in a bustling urban setting.  The opening of "Wild Oats" introduces us to a charming morning in the life of Doctor Rast as he and his wife engage in playful banter with their son David, who is full of youthful exuberance and imagination. As they prepare for the day, their interactions reflect a mixture of affection and the reality of their working-class existence. Doctor Rast''s day leads him through the Ghetto, where he connects with various people, including young Edith Kroll, who grapples with her own transitioning from girlhood to womanhood. This segment beautifully establishes the complex emotions at play, signaling a transformative period characterized by longing, innocence, and the awakening of love as the characters navigate their personal challenges and burgeoning relationships against the backdrop of their community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75552,500,'Reading ease score: 94.0 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75552,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75552,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75553,520,'"Among the Camps: Young People''s Stories of the War" by Thomas Nelson Page is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The book aims to depict the impact of the Civil War on children and families, particularly focusing on their experiences and emotional struggles during this tumultuous time. Through a series of narrative tales, it presents young characters navigating the realities of war with a blend of innocence and resilience.  At the start of the book, the story sets a nostalgic yet somber tone as it depicts a Christmas morning in 1863 at Holly Hill. The children are excitedly awaiting Santa Claus, but the specter of the ongoing war dampens their holiday spirit as the presents are meager and self-made. Mrs. Stafford, their mother, tries to keep the spirit of Christmas alive despite their father''s absence and the hardships they face. Meanwhile, Major Stafford, characterized by his deep love for his children, is shown on the battlefield, contemplating his children''s desires for Christmas gifts, which he vows to fulfill despite the war''s dangers. The beginning highlights the contrasts between the innocent joys of childhood and the harsh realities of war, setting the stage for internal and external conflicts that will reveal the characters'' bravery and growth throughout the collection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75553,500,'Reading ease score: 87.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75553,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75553,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75554,520,'"L’avision de Christine" by Christine de Pisan is a poetic allegory written in the late 14th century. The text revolves around the author, who explores her visions, which touch on various philosophical and societal themes, highlighting a woman''s perspective within medieval society. The work combines personal reflection with broader themes of wisdom, governance, and the nature of reality, emphasizing the importance of virtue and moral integrity.  At the start of this narrative, Christine describes a spiritual journey during which she becomes tired and seeks rest during a pilgrimage. This leads her to experience a vision where her spirit is lifted to a dark realm, where she encounters a large image personifying a significant entity. This image is accompanied by a crowned shadow resembling a powerful queen, who acts as a caretaker for the image''s nourishment, symbolizing the relationship between power and sustenance. The vivid descriptions and allegorical elements set the tone for a deep exploration of philosophical ideas and virtues, which unfold through Christine''s subsequent encounters and reflections within the text. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75554,500,'Reading ease score: 24.9 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75554,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75554,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75555,520,'"Aphorismes du temps présent" by Gustave Le Bon is a collection of philosophical reflections written in the early 20th century. This work distills various insights from the author’s previous writings into concise aphorisms, addressing themes of human behavior, psychology, and societal observations. Through this format, Le Bon aims to convey profound truths about the human condition and the collective psyche.  At the start of this work, the author introduces the aphoristic style as an effective means to capture and communicate complex ideas briefly. In the opening section, Le Bon emphasizes the reliance of human actions on character rather than intelligence, exploring the multifaceted nature of individuality shaped by ancestral and social influences. He discusses how emotions, sentiments, and subconscious motivations significantly impact behavior, suggesting that understanding one''s character is essential for comprehending human actions and societal phenomena. This engaging introduction sets the stage for a deeper exploration of the psychological forces that govern both individual behaviors and collective movements. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75555,500,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75555,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75555,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75556,520,'"Little Metacomet: or, The Indian Playmate" by Hezekiah Butterworth is a historical fiction work written in the early 20th century. This narrative portrays life in New England during the days of early settlement and the Indian Wars, focusing on the experiences of a young Indian boy named Little Metacomet, son of King Philip, and his interactions with both native peoples and early colonists. The story aims to illustrate the friendship that blossoms between Metacomet and a timid white woman named Susan, capturing the beauty of their lives intertwined with the natural world and the complexities of their cultures.  At the start of the tale, we are introduced to timid Susan Barley, who lives near the Mt. Hope lands, and her son Roger, both of whom harbor fears about their surroundings and the local Indians. Their path crosses with that of a hermit named William Blackstone, who has a naturalistic view on life. As the narrative unfolds, Metacomet emerges as a charismatic and inquisitive boy, deeply connected to nature, who is keen on sharing the wonders of the woods with Roger. The opening chapters establish a poignant backdrop of cultural exchange and innocence, setting the stage for their evolving friendship as they navigate the idyllic yet tumultuous times leading up to King Philip''s War. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75556,500,'Reading ease score: 91.7 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75556,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75556,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75557,520,'"Merely the Patient" by Henry Howard Harper is a memoir written in the early 20th century that recounts the author''s experiences as a patient undergoing a serious kidney operation. This book combines elements of medical narrative, humor, and personal reflection, addressing the often overlooked perspective of patients in the medical process. The author shares insights into the patient experience and critiques the clinical environment he encountered during his medical journey, revealing the emotional and psychological challenges faced by individuals in similar situations.  In "Merely the Patient," Harper chronicles his painful ordeal with a dysfunctional kidney leading up to surgery and the complexities surrounding his subsequent recovery. His narrative captures the anxious anticipation of various examinations, his encounters with medical staff, and the procedures that caused him both physical and psychological distress. Through a blend of humor, candid observations, and an exploration of the healthcare system, Harper illustrates the often bewildering and impersonal nature of hospitals while also paying homage to dedicated medical professionals who aided in his recovery. The memoir ultimately serves as a reflection on the importance of empathy in medicine and the need for clearer communication between doctors and their patients. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75557,500,'Reading ease score: 61.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75557,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75557,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75558,520,'"Cavalry Life in Tent and Field" by Mrs. Orsemus Bronson Boyd is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The narrative offers a personal glimpse into the experiences of the author as the wife of a cavalry officer during the later years of the American Civil War and the following years, detailing the trials and tribulations faced by military families. As such, the book vividly presents the challenges of life on the frontier, emphasizing themes of bravery, resilience, and sacrifice.  At the start of the book, the author provides an overview of her husband''s military service, influenced by the camaraderie and shared aspirations of two brothers eager to join the fight in the Civil War. She recounts the emotional departure of her husband and his brother for enlistment, sharing the hardships faced by families left behind. The narrative then transitions to her own experiences as a military wife, emphasizing the physical and emotional demands of constant relocation, the struggle for resources, and the nuances of frontier life, including the profound challenges of illness, poverty, and social isolation. Through these early pages, the reader begins to appreciate the strength and determination required to navigate a life intimately connected with military service during a turbulent period in American history. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75558,500,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75558,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75559,520,'"The Journal of George Fox" is a historical account written in the late 17th century, chronicling the life, travels, sufferings, and Christian experiences of George Fox, the founder of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). This journal serves as a testament to Fox''s profound spiritual journey and his commitment to preaching the Inner Light and truth in the face of adversity.   The opening of the journal introduces readers to the context in which Fox lived and provides insights into his early life, including his spiritual awakenings and the trials he faced. It describes his initial struggles with despair, his increasing understanding of Christ''s sufferings, and the gradual emergence of his prophetic voice. The text emphasizes his resolve to preach against societal injustices and the oppressive religious structures of his time, calling attention to the transformative power of faith that later came to characterize the Quaker movement. Overall, the beginning sets the stage for a narrative that intertwines personal devotion with a broader call to spiritual and social reform. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75559,500,'Reading ease score: 64.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75559,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75559,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75560,520,'"A-B-C of Housekeeping" by Christine Terhune Herrick is a practical guide on domestic management written in the early 20th century. This instructional book focuses on various aspects of housekeeping, including selecting a home, furnishing, budgeting, cooking, and maintaining cleanliness, with an emphasis on effective household management. It acts as a manual for both new and experienced homemakers seeking to create an organized and efficient living environment.  At the start of "A-B-C of Housekeeping," the author discusses the fundamental considerations in choosing a home, stressing the importance of affordability and practicality over mere preference. Herrick details how the cost of housing should be balanced against other household expenses, providing insights on factors such as heating, plumbing, and cleanliness that significantly impact the suitability of a potential home. The opening effectively sets the stage for the comprehensive advice and instructions that follow in the book, focusing on efficient and thoughtful approaches to modern housekeeping. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75560,500,'Reading ease score: 60.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75560,452);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75560,464);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75561,520,'"Some Old Masters of Greek Architecture" by Harry Douglas is a historical account written in the late 19th century. This work aims to shed light on the often-overlooked architects of ancient Greece, exploring their contributions and the lasting impact of their designs on the field of architecture. Douglas seeks to revive the names and stories of these geniuses who shaped the architectural standards that continue to be admired and emulated in modern times.  The opening of this work introduces the author’s motivation to delve into the obscured history of Greek architects, highlighting a significant gap in the general awareness of their identities and achievements. Douglas emphasizes the importance of architecture as an art form that intertwines functionality and aesthetics. He critiques the tendency of historians to forget or overlook the names of architects in favor of artists from other domains, such as painting and sculpture. By mentioning specific examples and historical references, he sets the stage for a deeper exploration of notable Greek architects, including a list of eighty-two figures he aims to discuss throughout the volume. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75561,500,'Reading ease score: 44.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75561,425);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75561,443);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75562,520,'"The Assassination Bureau, Ltd." by Jack London and Robert L. Fish is a novel written in the mid-20th century. The book presents a unique blend of adventure and philosophical exploration through the lens of an assassination organization. The main character, Ivan Dragomiloff, leads this Bureau, providing assassination services that are surprisingly regulated by ethical standards, challenging traditional notions of justice and morality.  At the start of the narrative, readers are introduced to Dragomiloff''s office, where he conducts business related to his Bureau. The scene unfolds with a nervous client, Hausmann, who seeks the assassination of Chief McDuffy, highlighting the tension between anarchist motivations and the operations of the Bureau. As the dialogue reveals the organization’s process and moral justifications for their work, the complexity of Dragomiloff’s character begins to emerge. He is both a defender of justice and the executor of death, setting the stage for deeper ethical discussions as the story progresses. The opening sets a compelling tone, making readers curious about how Dragomiloff will navigate the repercussions of his profession and personal beliefs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75562,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Assassination_Bureau,_Ltd',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75562,500,'Reading ease score: 76.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75562,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75562,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75563,520,'"Cedar Chests, How to Make Them" by Ralph Flagg Windoes is a practical guide published in the early 20th century, focusing on the design and construction of cedar chests. The author, who had an instructional background in manual training, provides insights into not only the woodworking techniques but also the historical significance and advantages of using red cedar as the primary material. This book is aimed at craftsmen, students, and enthusiasts interested in woodworking projects that emphasize both utility and aesthetics.  The book begins with an exploration of red cedar, detailing its properties and advantages for chest construction, such as durability and resistance to decay. Windoes then outlines various chest designs, accompanied by step-by-step instructions for building a simple chest and tips on finishing techniques. Throughout, he emphasizes the educational value of woodworking, encouraging readers to experiment with their designs and adapt the provided models. With an array of design options and practical advice on techniques, "Cedar Chests, How to Make Them" serves as both an instructional manual and a celebration of craftsmanship in furniture making. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75563,500,'Reading ease score: 71.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75563,452);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75563,437);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75564,520,'"The Puzzle of Life and How It Has Been Put Together" by Arthur Nicols is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This work aims to provide a concise history of the Earth''s formation, exploring various aspects of geological, botanical, and zoological development from its earliest times, with a particular focus on the existence of prehistoric life. The book appears to be targeted primarily at young readers, likely aiming to foster interest in and understanding of Earth sciences.  The opening of the book introduces the concept of the Earth as a complex puzzle that has evolved over time, establishing foundational questions regarding the planet''s formation and changes throughout history. Nicols characterizes different layers of the Earth and discusses how fossils, unearthed through various natural and human activities, provide insights into prehistoric life and contribute to our understanding of the planet''s evolution. He emphasizes the importance of observation in geology and concludes by inviting readers to explore how living beings, including humans, eventually emerged from a long lineage of life on Earth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75564,500,'Reading ease score: 67.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75564,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75564,479);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75565,520,'"The Man with a Grouch" by H. De Vere Stacpoole is a novella set in the South Seas, likely written during the early 20th century. This story revolves around the themes of dissatisfaction and human nature, focusing on Christopher Flexner, a trader who has been dismissed from his position and finds himself reflecting on his life choices and circumstances as Christmas approaches in the midst of tropical beauty.  The narrative follows Flexner as he navigates his emotional turmoil after losing his job while also dealing with thoughts of his home in England and the Christmas traditions he cherishes. His fortunes take a drastic turn when he unexpectedly discovers a mass of ambergris—an extremely valuable substance produced by sperm whales—while out on the sea. Though this newfound wealth could transform his circumstances, Flexner''s underlying dissatisfaction continues to haunt him, highlighting a profound commentary on human nature and the paradox of finding happiness amid material success. Ultimately, the story delves into Flexner''s struggle with his own grouchiness and his longing for a sense of contentment in life, regardless of the riches before him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75565,500,'Reading ease score: 76.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75565,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75566,520,'"Visibility—Zero" by John Amid is a dramatic piece centered around aviation, likely written in the late 1920s, a time when commercial air transport was becoming more established but still posed great risks due to unpredictable weather and technology limitations. This work portrays the challenges faced by early pilots in their quest to deliver mail, highlighting the struggle between personal ambition, duty, and the inherent dangers of flight.  The narrative follows pilot Slip Crager as he grapples with both external weather conditions and internal conflict. He encounters a desperate passenger, Webber, who is anxious to reach his ailing wife. Although initially reluctant to take the passenger due to hazardous flying conditions, Crager ultimately decides to defy the company’s cautionary protocols in an attempt to prove his bravery and worth as a pilot. As a storm rolls in, visibility decreases, plunging him into a battle with his own limits of skill and responsibility. The story culminates in a tense and risky landing after numerous trials, leading to revelations about the identities of the characters involved and the connections that bind them. Ultimately, it raises questions about the nature of courage and the drive to succeed against all odds. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75566,500,'Reading ease score: 83.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75566,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75566,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75567,520,'"Highland Annals" by Olive Tilford Dargan is a collection of narrative sketches written in the early 20th century. The work captures the essence of rural life and the mountainous landscape of the Unakas, depicting the interactions and lives of its characters, notably Granpap and his family. Through vivid imagery and observations, the sketches explore themes of nature, human relationships, and the simplicity of life in the highlands.  The opening of "Highland Annals" introduces the character of Granpap Merlin, who personifies the old-world wisdom and earthy connection to the land while maintaining a pragmatic view on life. As the narrator grapples with their inherited farm, the rich flora and changing seasons mirror their emotional journey. The narrative showcases conversations between Granpap and the narrator, reflecting on farming practices, family connections, and the subtleties of mountain life. Dargan''s lyrical prose immerses the reader in a contemplative atmosphere, setting the tone for the exploration of relationships and existence within the natural world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75567,500,'Reading ease score: 89.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75567,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75567,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75568,520,'"Franz Schuberts Lebenslied: Ein Roman der Freundschaft" by Joseph Aug. Lux is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story aims to explore the essence of Austrian identity through the lens of the famed composer Franz Schubert, portraying both the challenges of his life and the vibrant nature of Austrian culture. The narrative focuses on Schubert, particularly his experiences during his formative years, as well as the relationships he builds with friends and mentors.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to a lively scene in a church where young boys, including a young Schubert, sing in the choir with great enthusiasm. The narrative captures the admiration Schubert inspires in his choir director, Ruczizka, who recognizes his exceptional talent. Alongside this, we witness the contrasting presence of the strict Hofkapellmeister Salieri, who disapproves of Schubert''s creative endeavors. As the plot unfolds, it touches on Schubert''s complicated familial relationships, the expectations he faces from his father, and his budding gift for music, setting the stage for a rich exploration of his journey toward becoming a renowned composer. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75568,500,'Reading ease score: 79.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75568,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75568,460);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75569,520,'"Als ich noch der Waldbauernbub war. Band 2" by Peter Rosegger is a fictional work written in the early 20th century. This book continues the nostalgic exploration of rural life through the eyes of a young boy, detailing his experiences and interactions with his family and the broader community. It touches on themes of childhood, tradition, and the significance of nature, capturing the essence of life in a quaint, pastoral setting.  The opening of this volume sets the stage for the main character''s reflections during the Advent and Christmas period. The narrative describes his observations of family life and the preparations for the festive season, highlighting the warmth and traditions that surround Christmas in a rural community. The boy''s innocent fears, particularly about the mysterious character known as Mooswaberl, and his eventual journey to church capture the blend of childhood wonder and trepidation. As he navigates through the ambiance of the season, including family prayers and festive activities, readers are drawn into a world that balances the innocence of youth with the timeless rituals of Christmas in the countryside. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75569,500,'https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waldheimat._Erinnerungen_aus_der_Jugendzeit',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75569,500,'Reading ease score: 77.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75569,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75569,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75570,520,'"Psychology of the Stock Market" by G. C. Selden is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book explores the psychological factors that influence stock market behavior, arguing that investor psychology significantly impacts price movements. Through careful analysis and practical insights, Selden aims to bridge the gap between psychological theories and their application in trading and investment decisions.  In this book, G. C. Selden examines the complex interplay between the human psyche and stock market fluctuations. He discusses concepts such as the speculative cycle, inverted reasoning, market panic, and the mental attitudes of traders. Selden illustrates how public sentiment can lead to irrational market behaviors, such as excessive optimism during booms and unwarranted fear during panics. By dissecting these psychological aspects, Selden provides valuable strategies for investors and traders to improve their decision-making processes, emphasizing the importance of understanding market psychology over solely relying on technical and fundamental analysis. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75570,500,'Reading ease score: 56.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75570,428);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75570,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75571,520,'"Symptoms of Being 35" by Ring Lardner is a humorous reflection on aging, particularly focusing on the experiences and thoughts of a man who is reaching the age of 35. Written in the early 20th century, this work takes the form of a comedic essay or monologue, which utilizes conversational language to engage readers. The likely topic revolves around the author''s personal observations and insights about life at this age, blending humor with relatable commentary on domesticity, social interactions, and the passage of time.  The book explores the character’s realizations about life as he hits this milestone age. Through a series of anecdotes and observations, he humorously contrasts his youthful experiences with the realities of being 35, highlighting the shift in priorities and perceptions regarding home, family, and social obligations. The author muses on themes of mortality, the absurdity of societal expectations, and the humorous struggles that come with aging, such as declining youth and the enjoyment of simple comforts. The narrative is rich with wit and draws readers into a reflection on the absurdity and significance of aging, all while maintaining an entertaining tone that resonates with both younger and older audiences alike. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75571,500,'Reading ease score: 88.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75571,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75571,463);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75572,520,'"Muuan katuvallankumous" by Knut Hamsun is a novel written in the early 20th century, likely reflecting the socio-political climate of that time. The book explores themes of revolution and civil unrest, specifically focusing on an uprising that arises in Paris due to the perceived oppression of artists and students by the authorities. This narrative encapsulates various perspectives on the tumultuous atmosphere of a society on the brink of change.  The story is narrated by an unnamed protagonist who is drawn into the chaos of a student-led revolt in Paris. It begins when he is roused from sleep to hear about a revolution sparked by a police intervention during a ball at the Moulin Rouge, where artistic expression meets public outcry. As the protests escalate, the protagonist witnesses the growing unrest as students unite with the working class, leading to violent confrontations with police and a breakdown of order in the city. Amidst the chaos, the protagonist struggles with his own opinions about the uprising and is swept along by the tide of events, ultimately confronting the moral complexities of the revolutionary fervor. The narrative culminates in both the physical and emotional turmoil that accompanies societal upheaval, leaving readers with reflections on the cost of change and the nature of freedom. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75572,500,'Reading ease score: 34.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75572,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75572,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75573,520,'"Nuorten tuomio: Yksinäytöksinen draama" by Lauri Haarla is a one-act drama written in the early 20th century. Set in the Lapland region during the 1830s, the play explores themes of vengeance, identity, and the consequences of past actions. It unfolds against the backdrop of a tumultuous natural environment, reflecting the inner turmoil of the characters confronting their heritage and moral dilemmas.  The plot centers around Ristin, a mother deeply embittered by her past with Otto Enarsson, who seeks accountability for the misfortunes caused by his son and hers, Saulo. Saulo, caught between loyalty to his mother and his emerging feelings for Esther, Enarsson''s daughter, struggles with his identity as a ''Polson boy''. The tension escalates when the two young characters discover their shared lineage, revealing Saulo to be the son of Otto. The themes of reconciliation and the impact of familial ties run throughout the story, culminating in a powerful confrontation around betrayal, love, and the pursuit of justice, leading Saulo and Esther to their decision to break free from the burdens of their heritage. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75573,500,'Reading ease score: 55.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75573,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75573,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75574,520,'"Van het toovervischje : Een oud sprookje op nieuw verteld en berijmd" is a whimsical children''s story written likely in the early 20th century. The book tells the tale of a little dwarf couple named Piggelmee who live in a quaint but inadequate home, navigating dreams and wishes through the adventures they have with a magical fish. The narrative highlights themes of desire, contentment, and the human (or in this case, dwarf) tendency to seek more than what one already possesses.  The story unfolds as Piggelmee and his wife, faced with a life lived in a stone pot, learn about a magical fish that can grant wishes. Full of excitement and hope, Piggelmee navigates various wishes for a house, furniture, clothes, and eventually, even a maid, as his wife''s desires grow. However, each wish brings more complications, leading to a cycle of dissatisfaction. Ultimately, when Piggelmee''s wife asks for the impossible—a better brand of coffee—Piggelmee finds himself and his wife back in their old stone pot, revealing a poignant lesson about gratitude and the importance of appreciating what one has, especially in relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75574,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75574,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75574,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75575,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0125: Een vreemde geschiedenis" by Matull and Blankensee is a fictional narrative likely set in the late 19th century. The story introduces Lady Forster, who feels trapped and resentful in her luxurious but oppressive life as the wife of Mr. Forster, a powerful steel magnate. The narrative explores themes of power, class struggle, and the emotional turmoil of its characters, notably Lady Forster and Mr. Forster, who harbors dark ambitions.  At the start of the book, we find Lady Forster ensnared in her lavish surroundings, grappling with intense feelings of despair and entrapment. As she wrestles with her emotions, she is summoned by her husband, Mr. Forster, who is depicted as a ruthless businessman with a domineering personality. The narrative hints at Lady Forster''s upcoming involvement in complicated family dynamics and the troubling world of industrial power as the story unfolds. Additionally, we are introduced to other key characters, such as Issi Stancy, a young typist caught up in Mr. Forster''s ambitious schemes, hinting at a parallel story of aspiration and morality woven throughout the main plot. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75575,500,'Reading ease score: 75.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75575,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75575,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75576,520,'"The Old Stanfield House; or, The Sin of Covetousness" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around Calista Stanfield, a young girl facing the challenges of her family legacy and the dynamics of her relationships, particularly with her Aunt Priscilla, who has inherited the estate after General Stanfield''s death. The narrative explores themes of ambition, societal expectations, and the dichotomy of wealth and moral integrity.  The opening portion of the novel introduces Calista as she stands at the gate of the dilapidated Stanfield house, reflecting on its neglected state and her own position within the family. As she grapples with feelings of abandonment and a desire for acceptance, we learn about her father Richard''s troubled past and the stern authority of her Aunt Priscilla. Calista’s conversations reveal her longing for warmth and belonging, as well as her struggles with financial limitations that inhibit her aspirations. The groundwork is laid for a deeper exploration of her quest for identity, the influence of wealth, and the complexities of her familial relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75576,500,'Reading ease score: 81.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75576,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75576,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75577,520,'"Footprints" by Kay Cleaver Strahan is a novel written in the late 1920s. The story revolves around Judith Quilter Whitefield, a widow and member of a prominent family in Oregon, who struggles with family secrets and past traumas as she navigates her relationships. The novel begins with Judith’s arrival at a hotel, where she is introduced to the dynamics of upper-class society, revealing her past and the enigmatic troubles surrounding her family.  The opening of the novel introduces readers to Judith as she ventures through the hotel lobby and prepares to meet her brother, Neal Quilter. This initial glimpse establishes a complex familial backdrop, with hints of past tragedies, particularly the unresolved murder of Judith and Neal’s father, Richard Quilter. Neal''s psychological struggles surface early on, leading to a gripping dialogue where he confesses to feeling guilty over their father''s death. Their interactions blend elements of intrigue and emotional depth, indicating that the narrative will tackle themes of guilt, family loyalty, and the burden of past actions. The stage is set for a story that interweaves mystery and introspection as Judith seeks to understand her family''s legacy while grappling with Neal''s troubling revelations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75577,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75577,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75577,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75578,520,'"Poems of Childhood" by Eugene Field is a collection of poetic verses written in the late 19th century. This compilation captures the innocence and imagination of childhood through various themes, often invoking nostalgia for the simplicity and joy of youth. Each poem enchants readers with vivid imagery and a playful tone that celebrates the adventures and whimsical thoughts of children.  At the start of the collection, the poem "With Trumpet and Drum" introduces readers to the joyous sounds and sights of children at play, evoking a sense of warmth and nostalgia. Field employs charming illustrations and an endearing narrative voice that communicates a longing for the carefree spirit of childhood. As the opening progresses, other delightful poems like "Krinken," "The Naughty Doll," and "Nightfall in Dordrecht" paint enchanting scenes of imagination, love, and the bittersweet nature of growing up, drawing the reader into a whimsical world filled with both joy and melancholy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75578,500,'Reading ease score: 77.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75578,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75578,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75579,520,'"La morta: Quadro dramátich" by Pompeu Crehuet i Pardas is a dramatic play written in the early 20th century. Set in a small town near Barcelona, the play explores themes of loss, regret, and complex human relationships following the death of a woman named Mariagna. It delves into the lives of various characters as they grapple with their emotions and interactions, particularly focusing on familial ties and the repercussions of infidelity.  The narrative unfolds in a household where the characters Eloy, Jaume, Quirse, Antonia, Rosa, and Teresa are dealing with the aftermath of Mariagna''s death. As the characters interact, their pasts and unresolved tensions come to light. Jaume, the husband of the deceased, struggles with guilt and remorse, particularly about the affection he had for another woman, Rosa. The play reflects the emotional turmoil experienced by the characters as they confront their circumstances, leading to poignant revelations and an exploration of the burdens of guilt, love, and the quest for redemption. Throughout the unfolding drama, Eloy, who is portrayed as a mentally challenged boy, adds a layer of innocence and tragedy as he longs for his deceased mother. The play culminates in a moment of acknowledgment and reconciliation between father and son, emphasizing the enduring bonds of family amid tragedy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75579,500,'Reading ease score: 81.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75579,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75579,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75580,520,'"Affairs of West Africa" by E. D. Morel is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the complex racial, political, and commercial issues surrounding British administration in West Africa during the era of colonial expansion. Morel presents an analysis of the British trade dynamics with the region, highlighting its significance and the challenges posed by competing European powers, particularly in the context of the economic prospects of West Africa.  The opening of the text introduces the reader to the author''s intention to address the multifaceted problems facing West Africa amidst its administration by various European powers. Morel expresses a commitment to presenting an honest depiction of the situation, emphasizing that he has no vested commercial interests in the region. He sets the stage for a detailed exploration of Britain''s commercial engagements, particularly through statistical analysis of trade patterns, which frames the narrative of West Africa as both a crucial trading partner and a territory with vast untapped resources. The beginning positions the book as a significant discourse on colonialism, presenting a blend of personal observation and factual data to shed light on the pressing issues of the time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75580,500,'Reading ease score: 52.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75580,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75580,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75581,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75581,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75581,435);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75582,520,'"A fehér páva: Kisvárosi történet" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in the small town of Varjas, which has remained relatively isolated from modern advancements due to the lack of a railway connection to Budapest. The narrative likely revolves around the lives of its inhabitants, particularly focusing on the character of Ábel Péter, an elderly representative of the town, and his niece Ábel Mariska, as they navigate changes brought about by modernization and the influence of outside forces.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the town of Varjas in the backdrop of 1909 when residents lament their isolation and the expensive nature of city life. We meet Ábel Péter as he strolls through the main street and encounters his spirited niece Mariska, who has just visited the cemetery to honor her deceased mother. The conversation highlights the characters'' personalities and familial relations, showcasing Mariska''s beauty and ambition while exploring societal tensions regarding the impending arrival of the railway. As different factions develop opinions on modernization, we can sense the shifting dynamics on the horizon, setting the stage for conflicts and developments in this quaint town. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75582,500,'Reading ease score: 66.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75582,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75582,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75583,520,'"The Informer" by Liam O''Flaherty is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set in Dublin and revolves around Francis Joseph McPhillip, a fugitive who has committed murder and is now hiding from the authorities. The book delves into themes of guilt, loyalty, and the moral complexities of revolutionary actions during a turbulent political period in Ireland.  The opening of the novel introduces us to McPhillip as he nervously navigates the streets of Dublin, reflecting on his recent violent past. He is depicted as a desperate yet insightful character, as he assesses the surroundings while evading capture. Interactions with the various down-trodden inhabitants of a lodging house reveal the grim atmosphere of despair and survival during a time of socio-political unrest. Through vivid descriptions, O''Flaherty paints a stark picture of McPhillip''s world—one filled with both palpable danger and ethical dilemmas, setting the stage for a tense narrative about the personal costs of revolution and betrayal. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75583,500,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75583,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75583,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75584,520,'"Cap''n Jonah''s Fortune: A Story of Cape Cod" by James A. Cooper is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in the picturesque setting of Cape Cod, where we are introduced to the titular character, Cap''n Jonah Hand, an old sea captain who returns to land after a life at sea, seeking a place to settle down among relatives he has not seen for many years. The narrative delves into the dynamics of his relationships with the Petty family and highlights themes of hospitality, societal expectations, and the search for belonging.  The opening of the novel introduces us to Cap''n Jonah as he arrives at the home of his niece, Sarah Petty, and her family. Jonah is a seasoned sailor with a lively personality, but right away, we see the contrasting environment of the Petty household, with Sarah''s sharp tongue and Tom Petty''s troubles looming over the family. The text hints at the struggles of young Pearl Holden, who finds herself trying to navigate the challenges of her life under Sarah''s dominion while showing an emerging bond with Cap''n Jonah. As the captain begins to integrate into their lives, he witnesses the complexities of family dynamics, creating an intriguing foundation for the rest of the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75584,500,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75584,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75585,520,'"Flecker''s Magic" by Norman Matson is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Spike Flecker, a struggling painter in Paris, who grapples with despair as he faces artistic failure, a lack of support from family, and feelings of loneliness. As he navigates the murky waters of his life, he encounters a mysterious girl who claims to be a witch, offering him the ability to grant wishes, setting the stage for a tale filled with magic and self-discovery.  The opening of the novel introduces Spike Flecker as he wanders through a dreary Parisian day, weighed down by his lack of success and his unfulfilled dreams. Cold and miserable, he reflects on his failures in art and life, contemplating self-harm. His thoughts are interrupted by a mysterious girl, who introduces herself as a witch and offers him a chance to wish for anything he desires. This encounter ignites the story, leading Spike to wrestle with the implications of his desires and the nature of happiness as he has just a few days to decide what he truly wants in life. The intriguing blend of his artistic aspirations, existential musings, and the allure of magic draws readers into Flecker''s world of enchanting possibilities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75585,500,'Reading ease score: 85.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75585,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75585,480);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58060,'fr.wikipedia','https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norman_H._Matson');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75586,520,'"Babe Ruth''s Own Book of Baseball" by George Herman Ruth is an autobiographical account and practical guide on baseball written in the late 1920s. This work reflects on both Ruth''s personal experiences in the sport and offers insights into the fundamentals of baseball, drawing from his illustrious career as one of the game’s most famous players. Through his vibrant storytelling, Ruth covers his early life, the path to becoming a professional athlete, and the strategies that made him an icon in the sport.  At the start of this book, readers are introduced to Ruth''s childhood in Baltimore, where he recounts the hardships and colorful characters of his youth. He shares anecdotes about his early love for baseball, the guidance he received from Brother Gilbert at St. Mary''s school, and the excitement of signing his first professional contract with the Baltimore Orioles. Ruth vividly describes the thrill of his initial experiences in the big leagues, making it clear that his journey was marked by humble beginnings and fueled by a passion for the game. The opening sets the stage for a deeper exploration of Ruth''s philosophies on baseball, offensive and defensive strategies, and the camaraderie among players. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75586,500,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75586,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75586,483);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75587,520,'"A Creel of Irish Stories" by Jane Barlow is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The opening segment introduces readers to the tranquil and picturesque valley of Letterglas, an almost untouched landscape that serves as a backdrop for tales of local life. The narrative seems to weave in themes of childhood wonder, familial connections, and the mysteries that often shroud both personal histories and the natural world.  The opening of the text focuses on a young girl named Eileen Fitzmaurice, who is depicted exploring her surroundings with an inquisitive spirit. Eileen''s imagination leads her to believe that a large stone near her home could be a hidden treasure chest filled with family silver, reflecting her longing for connection to her past and sense of ownership of lost grandeur. As she navigates her childhood with whimsical thoughts, the story hints at deeper family secrets and the socio-economic struggles of rural life. The rich descriptions and the mystery surrounding the stone creates an engaging, atmospheric beginning that invites readers to delve into Barlow''s world of Irish folklore and storytelling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75587,500,'Reading ease score: 70.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75587,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75587,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75588,520,'"Die Friedensburg bei Leutenberg" by Berthold Rein is a historical account written in the early 20th century. The text delves into the history of the Friedensburg, a border castle in Thüringen, focusing on its construction, inhabitants, and the socio-political climate over the centuries. It combines architectural details with narratives about the notable families and events associated with the castle, highlighting its significance to local heritage.  The opening of the work sets the stage for an exploration of the Friedensburg’s historical context, mentioning its role as a refuge during times of unrest and the influence of its various residents over the centuries. It emphasizes the castle as part of not just regional history, but the broader historical landscape of Thüringen, noting the scarcity of documented evidence due to fires that devastated records. Rein expresses his intent to present an accessible portrayal of daily life at the castle, steeped in the love of his homeland and the need for local historical knowledge. The initial sections introduce the environmental and social dynamics of the area, setting a foundation for deeper exploration of the castle''s past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75588,500,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75588,425);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75588,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75589,520,'"The Dark Eyes of London" by Edgar Wallace is a mystery novel written in the late 1920s. The story centers around Inspector Larry Holt, who is drawn into a complex investigation linked to a series of murders and the leaking of secrets. The sinister backdrop includes a gang known as the "blind giants" and features characters like Flash Fred, a gambler with dubious connections, and hints of a woman who could play a critical role in the unfolding mystery.  The opening of the novel sets the stage for a thrilling tale, as Inspector Larry Holt finds himself in Paris, enjoying a reprieve from his duties when he receives urgent news about the suspicious drowning of a wealthy Canadian named Gordon Stuart. As Holt prepares to return to London, he encounters the enigmatic Flash Fred, who has his own entanglements with the law. After arriving back in London, Holt begins to delve into the case, learning about Stuart''s mysterious past and connections to a small village, while also forming a partnership with a competent secretary, Diana Ward. The story quickly escalates into a web of intrigue, highlighting unseen dangers and the pursuit of truth in a murky underworld rife with danger and betrayal. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75589,500,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75589,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75590,520,'"The Journal of George Fox, vol. 2 of 2" is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work serves as the second volume detailing the life, travels, and Christian experiences of George Fox, the founder of the Religious Society of Friends, commonly known as Quakers. Fox’s narrative sheds light on his encounters with authorities as he actively spread his religious beliefs, faced persecution, and advocated for the rights of the oppressed.  The opening of the volume begins with a transcribed note about the publication details and an introduction emphasizing the significance and authenticity of Fox''s writings across previous editions. It then promptly delves into anecdotes from 1663 to 1666, recounting his travels in England and Wales, his imprisonment by magistrates, and poignant reflections on his faith amid adversities. Notably, it includes his disputes with various authorities concerning religious freedom and his refusal to adhere to laws he deemed unjust, ultimately illuminating the struggles faced by Quakers during his time. This quarter of the text demonstrates not only Fox''s resilience but also his commitment to living according to his religious convictions, making it a significant exploration of early Quakerism in the face of societal challenges. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75590,500,'Reading ease score: 72.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75590,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75590,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75591,520,'"Das Lagerkind: Geschichte aus dem deutschen Krieg" by Charlotte Niese is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set during the tumultuous time of the Thirty Years'' War and revolves around Burga, a young girl who becomes a "lagerkind", or camp child, amidst the chaos and devastation of war. It explores the harsh realities of life during this period, focusing on the experiences of those left vulnerable by conflict.  The opening portion of the novel introduces us to the setting, detailing the landscape of northern Germany during the Thirty Years'' War. As communities face violence and hardship, we meet Burga, an eleven or twelve-year-old girl on a desperate quest for food and shelter. She experiences rejection and scorn as she begs for help from the townspeople, who dismiss her as a child of the camps, reflecting the broader societal disdain for those affected by war. Her journey leads to encounters with various characters, including a kind fisherman’s son, Klas, and a loyal dog named Wolf, setting the stage for her struggle for survival in a world ravaged by war. The narrative immerses the reader in the grim realities of the time while hinting at Burga’s resilience and determination to find a place where she belongs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75591,500,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75591,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75591,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75592,520,'"Auf alten Wegen: Novellen" by Otto Buchmann is a collection of novellas written in the early 20th century. This evocative work explores themes of memory, nostalgia, and the passage of time, capturing the essence of human emotions and experiences through its characters. The storytelling is characterized by a poetic and reflective style, inviting readers to ponder the significance of past experiences and their impact on the present.  The collection comprises four main novellas that delve into various aspects of love, loss, and the bittersweet nature of memory. In the titular piece, the narrator embarks on a journey through familiar landscapes, revisiting his childhood experiences and the people who shaped his youth, all while grappling with the reality of change and the passage of time. "Die stille Geschichte" recounts a poignant encounter at a lakeside, highlighting moments of fleeting connection and the complexity of human relationships. "Operation" portrays the anxiety of impending surgery, exploring themes of vulnerability and existential contemplation. Finally, "Siegmund Federleins Liebe und seliges Sterben" tells the tragic tale of a book dealer whose life is irrevocably altered by love and loss, culminating in a heart-wrenching exploration of despair and the search for meaning. Together, these stories invite readers to reflect on the intertwining of joy and sorrow in the tapestry of life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75592,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75592,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75592,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75593,520,'"John Long''s Journal, 1768-1782" by Indian trader J. Long is a historical account written in the late 18th century. This work chronicles the experiences of John Long, detailing his interactions with various Native American tribes and his ventures in the fur trade during the early American settlement period. The journal serves as a window into the life and culture of Native Americans, as well as the social and economic dynamics of the region when European traders were expanding their influence.   At the start of the work, the editor provides an overview of John Long''s early life in England and his transition to North America, where he undertook an apprenticeship as a clerk and later joined the fur trade. Long immerses himself in Native American culture, learning languages and participating in their customs. He narrates tales of his travels and the various hardships faced during his expeditions, including interactions with different tribes and the dangers inherent in fur trading amid the tumult of the American Revolution. The opening portion sets the stage for an engaging exploration of Long''s dual life as a trader and interpreter, along with revealing insights into the complex relationships between European settlers and Native tribes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75593,500,'Reading ease score: 57.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75593,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75593,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75594,520,'"Luostarin metsästäjä: Raumalainen tarina uskonpuhdistuksen ajalta" by Lauri Soini is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the life of a young boy named Tapani who develops a deep love for nature and a passion for fishing and hunting under the guidance of his father in a small village near Rauma. As the narrative unfolds, Tapani becomes embroiled in the challenges and conflicts faced by a local monastery during the tumultuous times of the Reformation, exploring themes of faith, survival, and the struggle between traditional beliefs and emerging ideologies.  At the start of the novel, Tapani is introduced as a curious and adventurous boy whose bond with his father is enriched by stories, music, and the natural world around them. His life takes a turn when a monk named Olavi arrives at their home, discussing the rising threats to the monastery and calling for young men to join the cause. Inspired by Olavi’s fervor and missionary spirit, Tapani joins the monastery as a novice. However, he soon finds the reality of monastic life less appealing than he imagined, leading to his involvement in both the practical needs of the community and a burgeoning romantic interest in a local girl named Kerttu, adding both depth and complexity to his character as he grapples with his identity and the threats facing his cherished home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75594,500,'Reading ease score: 42.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75594,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75594,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75595,520,'"Raakaleenkorjuu" by Sheila Kaye-Smith is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around the Fuller family, particularly James Fuller, who struggles with the tensions of family life, faith, and societal expectations in a rural English community. The opening sets the stage for a complex exploration of personal relationships, including those between James and his children Robert and Clem, against a backdrop of fading familial legacy and shifting social dynamics.  At the start of this work, the narrative introduces the Fuller family, who have lived in High Tilt for nearly three hundred years, detailing their gradual decline from landowners to struggling farmers. James Fuller, recently widowed, tries to instill religious values in his children while dealing with their diverging paths, particularly Robert, who presents a rebellious attitude in contrast to his dutiful brother Clem. Tensions simmer during a family gathering as they prepare to attend a revival meeting, highlighting the differences in the siblings'' behaviors and beliefs, setting the stage for future conflicts and character development. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75595,500,'Reading ease score: 41.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75595,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75595,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75596,520,'"The Belle of a Season" by Countess of Blessington is a narrative poem written in the early Victorian era, specifically in the 1830s. The poem revolves around the experiences and emotions of a young woman named Mary as she transitions from the innocence of childhood into the vibrant, yet complicated, social scene of high society. The essence of the poem captures the themes of beauty, youth, and the societal pressures faced by women during this time period.  The storyline follows Mary as she embarks on her first season in London, filled with balls, societal expectations, and the enchanting yet daunting world of courtship. Initially, she is portrayed as a naive and innocent flower, unaware of the intrigues and superficiality that come with her newfound beauty. As she encounters suitors, one particular young man, Lord Deloraine, captures her heart as she navigates the emotional tumult of love, jealousy, and societal ambition. The poem intricately explores Mary''s internal struggle between her genuine self and the façade she feels compelled to present in the social arena. Ultimately, it is a reflection on the journey of a young woman as she seeks both love and her own identity amidst the external expectations imposed by society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75596,500,'Reading ease score: 76.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75596,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75596,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75597,520,'"Suurvallat I: Piirteitä nykyajan suurpolitiikasta" by Rudolf Kjellén is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the intricacies of modern geopolitics, examining the statuses and influences of the major powers in the world during a period marked by significant political upheaval, particularly surrounding the onset of World War I. Kjellén''s exploration aims to enhance the understanding of the underlying forces and motivations that shape international relations and the dynamics between nations.  At the start of the text, Kjellén emphasizes the need for a comprehensive guide to the contemporary political landscape. He outlines the tumultuous events that have unfolded since 1895, bringing the reader up to speed on the geopolitical tension that characterized Europe and beyond. The reader is introduced to the core motifs of the book, including the concept of ''planetarinen'' (planetary) politics, signifying the interconnectedness of global events and their implications. Kjellén sets the stage for a detailed analysis of great powers, illustrating their national interests and interactions, ultimately proposing that understanding these dimensions is crucial for grasping current and future political realities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75597,500,'Reading ease score: 11.4 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75597,468);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75597,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75598,520,'"The Problem Club" by Barry Pain is a collection of humorous stories written in the early 20th century. The book revolves around a unique club where members engage in quirky challenges called “problems,” each designed to amuse and confound. Among the characters are imaginative gentlemen who creatively navigate the strange scenarios set forth, showcasing their wit and intelligence while competing for prizes.  At the start of the book, the reader is introduced to the Problem Club, which consists of twelve members who meet at a restaurant to discuss and solve various challenges. The opening problem, known as "The Giraffe Problem," requires members to induce a woman to say, “You ought to have been a giraffe.” This sets the stage for a lighthearted and comedic exploration of their attempts, with each member sharing their experiences and strategies. The tone is witty and engaging, pulling the reader into the absurdity of the challenges and the camaraderie among the club''s members. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75598,500,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75598,453);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75598,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75599,520,'"The Truth About the Tobacco Habit" by T. Swann Harding is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. The book explores the health implications of tobacco use, questioning commonly held beliefs about its detrimental effects on health. Throughout the text, Harding examines the lack of rigorous scientific evidence supporting the notion that smoking leads to various diseases and highlights the complexities of individual human responses to tobacco.  In this examination, Harding provides anecdotes from personal experiences as well as references to medical opinions that challenge the prevailing anti-tobacco sentiment of his time. He critiques anti-smoking lectures and outlines differing medical perspectives regarding the effects of tobacco, suggesting that moderate smoking might not be as harmful as often claimed. Harding argues that while tobacco is frequently blamed for various health issues, the evidence supporting this connection is largely based on opinion rather than definitive scientific research. The author emphasizes the need for caution and individual consideration in forming judgments about smoking, ultimately advocating for a more nuanced understanding of its effects on health. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75599,500,'Reading ease score: 54.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75599,441);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75599,434);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75600,520,'"The Old Worcester Jug; or, John Griffin’s Little Maid" by Eglanton Thorne is a novel written in the late 19th century. This story revolves around John Griffin, a china dealer, and a poor widow who comes to sell family heirlooms to make ends meet for herself and her little daughter, Maggie. As the narrative unfolds, themes of morality, compassion, and the stark contrasts between wealth and poverty emerge, as Griffin grapples with his conscience after purchasing a valuable jug from the widow at a fraction of its worth.  The opening of the novel introduces us to John Griffin and his cramped, cluttered curiosity shop, where he prides himself on his extensive collection of china and antiquities. One cold evening, he meets a frail widow and her daughter, who attempt to sell him various pieces of china, including the titular jug. As Griffin undervalues the widow''s items in an effort to get a good bargain, the emotional weight of the situation is palpable. The widow is clearly struggling, and as she leaves, Maggie''s innocent gaze and the heaviness of her mother’s illness seem to haunt Griffin. This sets the stage for a moral reckoning, as Griffin is forced to confront his actions and their consequences, deeply intertwining their lives at a time of great hardship. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75600,500,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75600,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75600,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75601,520,'"Hier et demain : pensées brèves" by Gustave Le Bon is a philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. This work explores the psychological and moral impacts of war, particularly focusing on the changes in societal beliefs and structures as a result of conflict and challenges to traditional understandings of governance and morality. The author reflects on how the Great War has forced societies to confront deep questions about justice, truth, and their collective psyche.  At the start of the text, Le Bon introduces the profound transformations brought about by the ongoing conflict, noting that the destruction extends beyond physical realms to moral and psychological realms. He suggests that the war has dismantled old certainties and ideologies, forcing individuals to grapple with new realities that challenge previously-held beliefs. The opening serves as a foundation for his exploration of various psychological forces—biological, affective, mystical, and collective—that drive human behavior and shape historical events, setting the stage for subsequent discussions on the psychology of nations and individuals. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75601,500,'Reading ease score: 61.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75601,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75601,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75602,520,'"An Historical Sketch of the First Hillsboro Baptist Church" by W. Camp is a historical account penned in the late 19th century. This book details the origins and development of the First Hillsboro Baptist Church, chronicling the early settlers’ struggles and achievements from their arrival in the area. The narrative highlights the church''s role in the community and its significance to the settlers in Hillsboro, New Brunswick.  The book begins with the arrival of the Steeves family in 1763, who faced considerable hardships as they established their new home in a remote area. Despite isolation and scarcity, they persevered, eventually leading to the foundation of a Baptist congregation in 1822. Key figures discussed include Henry Steeves, who preached amidst the hardships, and Rev. Joseph Crandall, who played a crucial role in formalizing the church''s organization. The narrative captures the growth and challenges faced by the church over the decades, including significant events, leadership changes, and the eventual establishment of additional churches stemming from the First Hillsboro Baptist Church. Through rich historical details, the book paints a vivid picture of the faith and resilience of this pioneering community. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75602,500,'Reading ease score: 70.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75602,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75603,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75603,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75603,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75604,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75604,448);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75604,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75605,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75605,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75606,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75606,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75606,448);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75607,500,'Reading ease score: 2.1 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75607,448);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75607,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75608,520,'"The City in the Sea" by H. De Vere Stacpoole is a novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative begins with a foreword explaining the author''s inspiration and connection to the discovery of submerged cities in the Mediterranean, hinting at a blend of adventure and romance. The story follows Robert Lestrange, a young writer, as he navigates his personal and professional life in London, intertwining the themes of love, exploration, and the fondness for the sea as he embarks on an expedition to uncover treasures from the submerged city of Hyalos.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Robert Lestrange, who is trying to find his place in the world as both a writer and a person dealing with the loss of his father. He meets Martia Hare, an ambitious and insightful woman who works at a literary agency, and together they explore the challenges of life and writing. Their conversations reveal Robert''s lack of experience and his newfound determination. The narrative quickly develops to include an intriguing proposition from Jacob Behrens, who has plans for an adventurous treasure hunt to Hyalos, a city submerged under the sea. This sets the stage for a thrilling journey, as Robert is faced with the choice of diving into an unpredictable adventure, sharing the experience with Martia, and potentially uncovering the secrets of the past. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75608,500,'Reading ease score: 80.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75608,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75608,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75609,520,'"The Aldine Speller, Part Three: For Grades Five and Six" by Catherine T. Bryce and Frank J. Sherman is an educational resource intended for teaching spelling to elementary school students, specifically those in grades five and six. Written in the early 20th century, this book focuses on effective spelling education, addressing common issues faced by both teachers and students in mastering spelling. Its likely topic revolves around the methods and techniques utilized for improving spelling skills in young learners.  The book is structured to provide a variety of spelling words categorized for practical learning purposes, along with phonetic foundations, spelling rules, and various exercises to engage students. It encourages teachers to adopt a systematic approach to spelling, shifting the focus from mere testing to actual teaching. The content includes lists of frequently misspelled words, practical vocabulary relatable to everyday life, and suggests methods to create interest in the subject. The inclusion of stories and dictation exercises further enriches the learning experience, aiming to develop a strong spelling sense while also enhancing students'' overall vocabulary. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75609,500,'Reading ease score: 59.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75609,484);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75610,520,'"Fashions for Men and The Swan: Two Plays by Franz Molnár" by Ferenc Molnár is a collection of dramatic works written in the early 20th century. The first play, "Fashions for Men," revolves around the interactions in a clothing shop, exploring themes of societal class and personal relationships. The characters include Peter Juhasz, his wife Adele, and various customers, highlighting the nuances of human emotions and social dynamics in a lighthearted yet poignant manner.  At the start of the play "Fashions for Men," we find ourselves in a modest shop, where Peter Juhasz and his wife Adele work together amidst an array of customers, each seeking to fulfill their fashion desires. As interactions unfold, there''s an undercurrent of tension as Adele grapples with important decisions, including a growing connection to Oscar, one of her husband''s colleagues. The opening sets the stage for a comedic yet serious exploration of relationships, revealing the complexities of loyalty and desire against the backdrop of social expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75610,500,'Reading ease score: 81.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75610,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75610,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75611,520,'"Helin kesä" by Eva Hirn is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers around Heli, a young woman navigating her academic pursuits, familial expectations, and social life in a transitional period marked by evolving gender roles. Readers are introduced to Heli''s struggles with her responsibilities and ambitions as she contemplates her future and seeks independence.  The opening of the novel establishes Heli''s character, showcasing her dedication to her studies in science while managing her household duties as the only daughter among brothers. Heli''s conversations with her friends, particularly Meri, reveal their aspirations, societal pressures, and the contrasting challenges they face as women. As Heli articulates her desire for freedom from domestic constraints, she reveals plans to take on a summer job as a servant in a wealthy household, aiming to experience life away from her current environment. This decision sets the stage for her adventures and explorations of class and identity that may unfold as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75611,500,'Reading ease score: 54.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75611,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75611,440);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75612,520,'"Kullan voima: romaani" by Arnold Bennett is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book explores themes of ambition, deception, and personal relationships through the lives of its characters, with a key focus on Mrs. Cavalossi, a complex and wealthy widow who navigates her intricate world with determination. Set in vivid locations like a luxurious hotel and bustling cityscapes, the narrative promises readers an engaging examination of societal norms and individual desires.  The opening of the novel introduces Mrs. Cavalossi, who is characterized by her beauty and complex emotional state as she waits in her elegant hotel room. Restless and anxious, she is eager for an important meeting with Dr. Colpus regarding her son Arthur and an unspecified significant matter. Their conversation unveils a mix of humor and tension, hinting at plans that hover on the edge of morality while highlighting the dynamics of their relationship. Just before the arrival of Arthur, the reader is given a glimpse of Mrs. Cavalossi''s enigmatic nature and the web of circumstances that surround her, indicating that her life is about to intertwine significantly with Arthur''s future. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75612,500,'Reading ease score: 44.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75612,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75613,520,'"Cuentos de Fray Mocho" by José S. Álvarez is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The narratives are steeped in the rich cultural and social fabric of Argentina, reflecting its local dialects and customs. The tales observe various characters, from the lechero (milkman) to everyday people in Buenos Aires, illuminating their lives with humor and poignant insight.  The opening of this collection sets the tone by establishing the nostalgic elements of Argentine life, particularly through the character of the lechero. The narrative captures the transformation of traditional roles and the diminishing charm of the past, as it juxtaposes the lively, spirited, and familiar figure of the old milkman with the more serious and mundane modern vendor. This reflective commentary serves as a gateway into a series of stories filled with local flavors, character-driven humor, and social critiques, inviting readers to explore the changing landscapes of Argentine culture and identity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75613,500,'Reading ease score: 64.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75613,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75613,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75614,520,'"Mendizábal" by Benito Pérez Galdós is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. This work is part of Galdós''s "Episodios Nacionales," a series that chronicles Spain''s historical events through the eyes of vivid characters. The narrative unfolds amidst the backdrop of Spain''s tumultuous political landscape in the 19th century, primarily focusing on the character of Fernando Calpena, a young man arriving in Madrid eager for adventure and opportunity.  The opening of the novel introduces Fernando Calpena, who arrives in Madrid and is immediately engulfed in a bustling scene at a local inn. While awaiting a mysterious acquaintance, he reflects on the excitement and peril associated with his new city. He is approached by an unsavory-looking character who reveals that he has been sent to escort him to a guesthouse, raising Fernando''s suspicions about his circumstances. Once at the guesthouse, he learns he has been welcomed in a manner fuelled by connections to the influential Mendizábal, a minister central to the political reform efforts in Spain. As Fernando navigates through this unfamiliar world of political intrigue and societal ambition, he begins to forge relationships with his fellow tenants, including a dialogue rich with political commentary that sets the stage for his adventures to unfold. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75614,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mendiz%C3%A1bal_(episodio_nacional)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75614,500,'Reading ease score: 62.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75614,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75614,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75615,520,'"Psychologie des temps nouveaux" by Gustave Le Bon is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the psychological forces that shape the dynamics of modern societies, particularly in the context of the aftermath of World War I. Le Bon explores how moral forces and psychological factors influence warfare and societal transformations, providing insights into the collective behavior of different nations.  The opening of "Psychologie des temps nouveaux" presents a comprehensive introduction to the themes of the book, focusing on the immense psychological shifts caused by the war. Le Bon reflects on how the war acted as a laboratory of psychological experimentation, revealing the importance of understanding the character and sentiments of nations in the context of political and social upheavals. He discusses how traditional views on morality and social norms have been challenged, resulting in a chaotic state where new beliefs emerge, thus setting the stage for significant changes in the social landscape. Overall, he emphasizes the critical relationship between psychological factors and historical events, laying the groundwork for further analysis throughout the publication. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75615,500,'Reading ease score: 59.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75615,469);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75615,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75616,520,'"The British Battle Fleet, Vol. 1 (of 2): Its Inception and Growth Throughout the Centuries" by Fred T. Jane is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This work delves into the evolution of the British Navy from its mythic beginnings to the sophisticated fleet in contemporary times. The primary focus highlights the technological advancements and the shipbuilders’ contributions to naval warfare rather than detailing the exploits of admirals and notable battles.  The opening of this work sets the stage for an exploration of the origins of British naval power. It begins by addressing the obscured and legendary inception of the fleet, moving from early myths involving figures like King Alfred to a more factual representation of naval developments during his reign and those of subsequent monarchs. Jane emphasizes that the establishment of a truly organized Navy stemmed from necessity—a response to foreign threats rather than a premeditated strategy—and outlines various periods, such as the Norman invasions and the Plantagenet era, that shaped the maritime landscape of England. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75616,500,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75616,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75616,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75617,520,'"The British Battle Fleet, Vol. 2: Its Inception and Growth Throughout the Centuries to the Present Day" by Fred T. Jane is a historical account written in the early 20th century. This volume serves as a comprehensive continuation of the evolution of the British Navy, examining both the technical advancements in naval architecture and the shifts in military strategy across different eras. The focus of this volume lies on significant battleship classes and innovations, highlighting individual ships and their contributions to naval warfare.  The opening of this volume begins with an exploration of the "Barnaby Era," detailing the design philosophies and battleship innovations led by Sir N. Barnaby in the late 19th century. It discusses strategic principles advocating stronger offensive capabilities over defensive measures in ship design, leading to a range of battleships like the "Inflexible" that sought to blend power with protection. The narrative provides insights into the changing nature of naval conflicts while setting the stage for subsequent developments in British maritime history. As Jane outlines various classes and specific ships, it becomes clear that this work is both a technical examination of these vessels and a reflection on their historical significance in the context of British naval supremacy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75617,500,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75617,444);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75617,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75618,520,'"The Wonders of Salvage" by David Masters is a non-fiction account detailing the art and challenges of maritime salvage, written in the early 20th century. The narrative discusses the complex processes and trials faced by salvage experts as they work to recover sunken vessels and their valuable cargoes, drawing on both historical examples and the author''s own observations.   The opening of the book sets the scene with a vivid depiction of a seasoned ship captain navigating through a turbulent storm. As he skillfully guides his vessel, the text delves into the melancholic reality of shipwrecks, emphasizing the annual economic losses they incur and the aftermath of human negligence against nature''s might. Masters discusses the essential role of salvage workers, the complexity of their challenges, their relentless spirit, and the unpredictable influence of weather on salvage operations. The text hints at thrilling stories of treasure recovery, detailing the remarkable perseverance and ingenuity required to extract remnants of lost fortunes from the depths of the ocean. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75618,500,'Reading ease score: 69.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75618,437);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75618,446);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75619,520,'"Satan''s Garden" by E. Hoffmann Price is a thrilling adventure novel crafted in the early 20th century. Set in the mystical surroundings of Bayonne, it intertwines elements of occultism, supernatural horror, and intrigue. The story begins with Glenn Farrell and his companion Pierre d''Artois attempting to uncover the invisible forces tormenting a beautiful girl named Antoinette, who is caught in a terrifying cycle of beatings connected to an unseen evil rooted in a mysterious garden, hinting at a connection to hasheesh-eaters.  The opening of the narrative introduces the characters of Glenn Farrell and Pierre d''Artois, who are deep in contemplation about the strange occurrences surrounding Antoinette. As they monitor her restless nights, they are drawn into escalating supernatural events that culminate in a sense of dread, including the horrific sight of Antoinette suffering from invisible lashings. Struggling to comprehend the forces at play, they uncover hints of an ancient evil tied to the lore of the "Assassins" and the dark magic of a veiled master. The gripping atmosphere sets the stage for a clash between rationality and the inexplicable, suggesting a larger conspiracy as they resolve to protect Antoinette from her nightly torment and the overarching terror of "Satan''s Garden." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75619,500,'Reading ease score: 74.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75619,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75619,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75620,520,'"Bella" by Jean Giraudoux is a novel written in the 20th century. The book explores family dynamics, intergenerational relationships, and the impact of historical events, particularly through the lens of the main character, Philippe Dubardeau, and his father René Dubardeau, who has played a significant role in shaping post-war Europe. Giraudoux''s narrative seems to blend personal stories with broader societal themes, offering insights into love, ambition, and the legacies of war.  The opening of "Bella" introduces us to Philippe Dubardeau, who reflects on his father''s influence and his contributions to the restructuring of Europe after the war. René Dubardeau, a diplomat at Versailles, embodies a mix of idealism and pragmatism as he navigates the complexities of post-war negotiations and attempts to foster stability among new nations. Philippe describes familial gatherings, showcasing the blend of intellectual curiosity and personal ambitions that define their lives. Meanwhile, the character of Bella Rebendart, introduced later, intertwines with Philippe’s romantic pursuits and complex social interactions, hinting at a deeper narrative involving personal and national identity amidst the backdrop of historical change. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75620,500,'Reading ease score: 68.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75620,445);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75620,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75621,520,'"Syöttöpaikassa : Kaksiosainen maalaisaiheinen huvinäytelmä" by Urho Karhumäki is a two-part rural-themed comedy written in the early 20th century. The play primarily revolves around the lives and interactions of a group of characters involved in farming and daily rural life. It tells a story filled with humor and insight into the struggles and camaraderie of the farming community.  The play features several central characters, including Risto Louna, a young farmer, and his mother Anna Louna, along with Moose Laitala and his family. The dialogue highlights the relationship dynamics between these characters, filled with discussions about agricultural practices, life challenges, and aspirations. Themes of ambition and contentment intertwine as Risto expresses determination to improve their farming yield through modern practices, while Anna often reflects on her more modest expectations. The interactions are comedic yet poignant, ultimately exploring themes of family, ambition, and the quest for a better life within a rural setting. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75621,500,'Reading ease score: 55.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75621,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75621,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75622,520,'"Taka-Lappia" by Samuli Paulaharju is a travelogue and ethnographic work written in the early 20th century. The book explores the geography, culture, and peoples of Lapland, focusing particularly on the Sami community and their connection to the land and nature. The narrative is intertwined with Paulaharju''s personal travel experiences in the northern Finnish wilderness."  "The beginning of "Taka-Lappia" recounts the author''s journeys through Taka-Lappi and Inari, where he immersed himself in the landscapes and traditions of the Sami people. Paulaharju shares insights from his travels, describing the vast and varied terrain, including the mountains and lakes, while also highlighting the interactions he had with local inhabitants. His narrative touches on the oral history and cultural practices of the Sami, drawing from conversations with both young and old members of the community, thus setting the stage for a deeper exploration of their way of life in the wild and remote regions of Lapland." (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75622,500,'Reading ease score: 29.1 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75622,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75622,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75623,520,'"The Cornhill Magazine (Vol. IV, No. 2, August 1861)" by Various is a collection of literary articles and stories written in the mid-19th century. As an esteemed periodical of its time, it likely features a range of topics, from fiction and essays to commentary on contemporary social issues. The opening portion introduces characters embroiled in social dilemmas and personal relationships, particularly focusing on themes of love, financial struggle, and the complexities of human interactions.  At the start of the magazine, the narrative centers around Philip Firmin, whose character is presented through his interactions with General Baynes and his family. Philip''s recent act of kindness toward the General’s family has led him to become admired within their circle, resulting in light-hearted discussions about his suitability as a suitor for Miss Charlotte Baynes. As the story unfolds, the tale hints at Philip''s entanglements in his romantic affections and financial uncertainties, delving into the dynamics of relationships, parental influence, and the pressures of societal expectations. The narrative combines humor, introspection, and a critique of contemporary manners, drawing readers into the lives of its characters and setting the stage for further developments. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75623,500,'Reading ease score: 65.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75623,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75623,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75624,520,'"The House of Joy" by Laurence Housman is a collection of fairy tales written in the late 19th century. The stories within explore themes of love, sacrifice, and transformation, set against a backdrop of magical elements and whimsical characters. The opening tale, "The Prince with the Nine Sorrows," features a prince destined to encounter profound sadness due to the mysterious disappearance of his foster-sisters, intricately entwined with his fate.  The beginning of "The House of Joy" introduces readers to the life of a young prince raised far from his royal family, who bears nine sorrows linked to the loss of his foster-sisters. After a foreboding dream, his mother enlists the help of a family fairy, which ultimately leads to the mysterious vanishing of the sisters. As the prince grows, he feels the void of his lost siblings and the weight of his melancholy. Driven by an innate desire to find them, he embarks on a quest, revealing a heartfelt exploration of familial bonds and the intersection of joy and sorrow. The narrative combines elements of fantasy with deep emotional resonance, inviting readers into a rich tapestry of enchanting storytelling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75624,500,'Reading ease score: 83.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75624,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75624,480);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75625,520,'"Le règne du silence : poème" by Georges Rodenbach is a collection of poetic verses written in the late 19th century. This work explores the themes of silence, solitude, and the emotional landscapes of rooms and nature. Through vivid imagery and reflective language, the poem delves into the interplay between human emotions and the environments that surround them.  The opening of the poem introduces readers to the lives of rooms, personifying them with emotional depth and portraying them as silent witnesses to human experiences. Rodenbach describes various chambers, revealing their distinct atmospheres as they reflect joy, sorrow, and nostalgia. He captures the essence of solitude, illustrating how these rooms provide both comfort and a provocative reminder of emptiness and loss, as the speaker engages with memories and feelings of melancholy associated with the past. The layer of familial and temporal connections enriches the exploration of how space interacts with human experience, making the opening segment a compelling introduction to the thematic richness found throughout the poem. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75625,500,'Reading ease score: 68.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75625,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75625,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75626,520,'"Böske, Erzsi, Erzsébet" by Ferenc Herczeg is a novel written in the early 20th century. The storyline focuses on the relationships and emotional turmoil within a family, primarily exploring the characters of Jankó, Böskét, and Erzsi as they navigate childhood, grief, and complex bonds among themselves and the adults around them. It highlights themes of love, loss, and the innocence of youth, framed within a poignant, domestic setting.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Jankó, a boy consumed by his affection for his mother and a neighbor girl, Bözsi. The family is shrouded in a somber atmosphere following the death of a beloved aunt, with Jankó''s mother preoccupied with her grief. The arrival of Bözsi brings a brief spark of life into their world, as her playful nature contrasts sharply with the melancholy that dominates Jankó''s household. As Jankó yearns for connection with his mother, the chapters hint at the complexities of childhood friendships and rivalries, revealing layers of emotional depth that set the tone for later developments in their relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75626,500,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75626,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75626,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75627,520,'"A Borrowed Sister" by Eliza Orne White is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Lois Page, an only child who is thrilled to welcome a "borrowed sister," Jessie Matthews, into her home while Jessie''s family is temporarily away. As the two girls navigate their new friendship, the narrative explores themes of companionship, childhood adventures, and the joys and challenges of sharing a living space.  At the start of the novel, Lois is excited about Jessie''s impending arrival and begins to prepare for her new sister''s stay, noting the differences between Jessie and her other friend, Ellen. While Jessie is calm and agreeable, Ellen has a more complex friendship with Lois due to her unpredictable temper. The opening chapters highlight the three girls'' interactions as they express their feelings about the changes in their relationships while managing their emotions and preparing for the addition of Jessie to their lives. This charming beginning sets the stage for a heartwarming exploration of friendship and growing up. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75627,500,'Reading ease score: 89.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75627,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75628,520,'"In the Night" by R. Gorell Barnes is a mystery novel written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds against the backdrop of a quaint English village, bringing into focus the tragic murder of Sir Roger Penterton, a figure cloaked in unpopularity and abruptness. The plot engages a cast of characters including Inspector Humblethorne, who is tasked with unraveling the circumstances surrounding the crime, and Philip Castle, the disturbed secretary whose complex relationship with his employer becomes pivotal to the investigation.  At the start of the novel, the setting is established in the quiet village near Salting Towers, where the unexpected murder sets the stage for intrigue and suspicion. The narrative introduces Inspector Humblethorne as he begins his holiday only to be drawn into the investigation of Sir Roger''s violent death. Another central character, Philip Castle, is revealed to have had a contentious relationship with Sir Roger, hinting at underlying tensions that may provide motive for the crime. As villagers react to the shocking news, the opening builds suspense and lays the groundwork for the detective story to unfold, inviting readers to delve into the relationships and mysteries that will be explored throughout the unfolding tale. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75628,500,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75628,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75629,520,'"Economics for Helen" by Hilaire Belloc is a non-fiction work written in the early 20th century. The book serves as an introductory text on economic principles, aiming to clarify the concept of wealth and its various implications within society. Belloc systematically lays out fundamental economic concepts, making it accessible for readers unfamiliar with the field.  At the start of the text, Belloc outlines the definition of economics as the study of wealth and emphasizes the importance of understanding what wealth truly is. He distinguishes between material possessions and the economic values attached to them, stressing that wealth lies in the ability to exchange these values. He introduces key elements necessary for wealth production: land, labor, and capital, explaining how each component contributes to the creation and distribution of economic wealth. Overall, the opening portion lays a foundational understanding of economic concepts designed to engage and enlighten readers about the mechanisms that drive wealth and prosperity in society. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75629,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75629,435);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75630,520,'"Flashlights" by Mary Aldis is a collection of poems, stories, and sketches written in the early 20th century. This book captures various moments of human emotion and experience, reflecting themes of longing, love, and societal observation. Through its blend of poetic forms and narrative prose, it delves into the complexities of life, love, and the search for meaning in a rapidly changing world.  The content of "Flashlights" flows through a series of vignettes and lyrical pieces, exploring the lives of everyday characters—from the troubled souls in a barber shop to the poignant exchanges among strangers on a park bench. Each section portrays different facets of life, capturing moments of connection, reflection, and the struggles that people face amid the backdrop of city life. Aldis''s writing emphasizes the subtleties of human interaction and the emotions that lie beneath the surface, ultimately inviting readers to pause and consider their own experiences in the tapestry of life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75630,500,'Reading ease score: 88.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75630,467);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75630,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75631,520,'"Whither? by Anonymous" is a reflective philosophical work, likely written in the early 20th century. The book explores the spiritual and moral dimensions of human existence in an increasingly materialistic world, reflecting on the contrasting values between the past and modern life. It is not merely a historical account but rather a critique of contemporary existence, ensuring that readers are left pondering profound questions about progress, spirituality, and the essence of life.  In "Whither?", the author gathers insights from personal correspondence dated decades earlier, lamenting the loss of deeper spiritual values that once underpinned human experience. The text contrasts the superficial preoccupations of modern society—focused on material advancement and physical needs—with the rich, faith-driven lives of previous generations. The author argues that this shift towards a materialistic viewpoint leads to an impoverished spiritual existence, raising serious questions about the very meaning of progress. Through this discourse, the book advocates for a return to spiritual and ethical considerations as central to human flourishing, urging readers to recognize the intrinsic value of faith, hope, and the pursuit of a higher purpose amid an increasingly shallow and distracted world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75631,500,'Reading ease score: 50.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75631,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75631,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75632,520,'"Unterricht in der Beredsamkeit" by Quintilian is a comprehensive treatise on rhetoric written in the 1st century AD. This work serves as a pedagogical guide, aiming to instruct aspiring orators on the principles and practices of effective speaking and writing. It delves deep into the art of rhetoric, emphasizing both the technical aspects of eloquence and the moral standards expected of a speaker.  At the start of this text, Quintilian introduces the foundational elements necessary for mastering rhetoric. He discusses the importance of a rich vocabulary and suggests that a speaker must not only know various expressions but also be adept at using them appropriately. Quintilian outlines the connections between reading, writing, and speaking as crucial for developing genuine eloquence. He presents a holistic approach that intertwines the theoretical aspects of rhetoric with practical skills, laying the groundwork for what he deems effective oration. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75632,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutio_Oratoria https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutio_oratoria',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75632,500,'Reading ease score: 63.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75632,458);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75632,456);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75633,520,'"Novellenbuch, 2. Band: Dorfgeschichten" by Ernst Wichert, Heinrich Sohnrey, Wilhelm von Polenz, and Rudolf Greinz is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. This anthology focuses on village life, exploring the complexities of relationships, tradition, and the struggles faced by individuals within tight-knit communities. The first tale, "Ewe," introduces the village of Naujokat-Peter-Purwins and its characters, hinting at themes of rivalry, love, and societal expectations.  The opening of "Ewe" sets the stage in the picturesque yet conflict-ridden village, where the dynamics between the Naujok and Purwins families unfold. Ewe Purwins, a lively young woman, is depicted as carefree and strong-willed, contrasting with the widow, Urte Naujokene, who embodies responsibility and traditional values. The narrative hints at budding romantic tensions as Ewe encounters Mikelis, a young man returning from military service, creating a backdrop rich in potential for conflict and emotional turmoil. As past rivalries and personal ambitions collide, the lives of these characters are portrayed with depth and vividness, suggesting a story that plays out the themes of desire, obligation, and the quest for autonomy within the constraints of societal norms. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75633,500,'Reading ease score: 82.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75633,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75633,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75634,520,'"Kulturhistorische Charakterbilder: Für die Jugend" by J. E. Poritzky is a collection of biographical sketches intended for a young audience, written in the late 19th century. This work delves into the lives of significant historical figures, starting with the explorations of Christopher Columbus, and is likely designed to inspire young readers by showcasing the character and contributions of these influential individuals.  The opening of the book begins with a reflection on Columbus''s famous discovery of the New World. Poritzky illustrates the moment Columbus hears “Land!” after a long voyage, pondering the explorer’s emotions and motivations—from dreams of wealth and power to a deeper spiritual and intellectual ambition. He acknowledges the Renaissance atmosphere that surrounded Columbus, filled with the zeitgeist of exploration and intellectual awakening, emphasizing the interconnectedness of human progress above mere material gain. Through vivid imagery and historical context, the text sets the stage for Columbus''s significance as both a navigator and a complex figure shaped by the beliefs and aspirations of his time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75634,500,'Reading ease score: 67.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75634,446);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75634,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75635,520,'"La resclosa: Drama en tres actes" by Ignasi Iglesias is a play written in the early 20th century. The work unfolds in a mountainous setting and explores themes of love, societal expectations, and personal sacrifice. The central characters include Nuria, a young woman caught in the turmoil of her emotions, and David, who harbors deep feelings for her, complicating her engagement to another man, Adriá.  At the start of the play, we are introduced to David and Arcadi, who are painting in nature while discussing artistic matters and the emotional state of their friend Adriá, who is engaged to Nuria. As the dialogue progresses, hints about the tension surrounding Nuria''s impending marriage emerge, along with hints of deep affections that complicate relationships among the characters. Notably, David faces an internal struggle as he expresses a desire to rescue Nuria from a life of servitude and unfulfilled dreams, while she grapples with her feelings and the pressures of obligation. The opening sets the stage for a dramatic exploration of these intertwining lives against the backdrop of societal expectations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75635,500,'Reading ease score: 89.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75635,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75635,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75636,520,'"Nem élhetek muzsikaszó nélkül" by Zsigmond Móricz is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around Balázs, a young host celebrating his name day, who is initially surrounded by lively guests and music, but soon finds himself grappling with his personal relationships and the consequences of his hedonistic lifestyle. The setting captures the atmosphere of a rural Hungarian celebration while hinting at deeper societal themes.  At the start of the narrative, the festivities surrounding Balázs’ celebration are vividly depicted with guests and music filling the air. He is filled with joviality as he engages with his friends, but beneath the surface lies tension, particularly in his interactions with his wife, Pólika, who is increasingly dissatisfied with his indulgent behavior. As the night wears on, guests begin to leave, leading to a confrontation between Balázs and Pólika, which reflects their troubled marriage and Balázs’s inability to balance his desires with marital responsibilities. This opening sets the stage for exploring themes of joy, sorrow, and the struggle between personal fulfillment and familial duty. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75636,500,'Reading ease score: 75.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75636,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75636,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75637,520,'"Winged Warfare: Hunting the Huns in the Air" by William Avery Bishop is an autobiographical account of aerial combat written in the early 20th century. It chronicles the experiences of Major Bishop, a decorated pilot in the Royal Flying Corps during World War I, as he describes his transition from cavalry to the thrilling, perilous world of aerial warfare. The narrative captures the excitement and dangers faced by pilots over the Western Front, including combat with enemy aircraft and critical support for ground troops.  The opening of the book sets the stage for Bishop''s military journey, starting from a muddy cavalry camp in England where an unexpected encounter with a flying machine inspires him to become an aviator. He reflects on his training as an observer and the dichotomy between the drudgery of reconnaissance and the exhilaration of fighting in the air. It introduces his ambitions and experiences as he makes the leap from a passive role to actively engaging in the war as a pilot, eagerly anticipating his first chance to fight against the enemy in the skies. This opening portion not only establishes his desire for adventure but also paints a vivid picture of the early days of air combat and the profound shift in warfare during that era. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75637,500,'Reading ease score: 74.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75637,451);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75637,427);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75638,520,'"Meine zweite Weltreise: Erster Theil: London. Das Cap der guten Hoffnung…." by Ida Pfeiffer is a travel account written in the mid-19th century. This work chronicles the author''s experiences as she embarks on her second journey around the world, highlighting her observations and encounters in various locations, starting from London to the Cape of Good Hope and beyond. Pfeiffer, an adventurous and independent female traveler, narrates her journey, exploring the cultures, landscapes, and societal norms she encounters.  The opening of this account begins with Pfeiffer''s reflections on her departure from Vienna and her arrival in London. She describes the bustling and chaotic life of the city, contrasting it with her experiences in other ports around the world. As she navigates the streets, she remarks on the discomfort of public transport and the stark differences in culture and social manners. Throughout her observations, she expresses both admiration and criticism toward English customs, societal behavior, and the general lack of comfort she perceives in daily life. These early chapters set the stage for her travels, emphasizing her keen observations on culture and her determination to explore the world, despite the challenges faced by a woman in her time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75638,500,'Reading ease score: 68.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75638,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75638,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75639,520,'"Meine zweite Weltreise: Zweiter Theil: Sumatra, Java, Celebes, Die Molukken" by Ida Pfeiffer is a travelogue written in the mid-19th century. This narrative details the author''s explorations through the islands of Sumatra, Java, Celebes, and the Moluccas, providing insights into the cultures, landscapes, and experiences she encounters. Pfeiffer''s adventurous spirit drives her to venture into the unknown, often putting herself in risky situations to learn more about the indigenous peoples and their customs.  At the start of the journey, Pfeiffer eagerly prepares for her voyage to Sumatra, highlighting the challenges she anticipates, including the significant travel costs. Her arrival at Padang serves as the launch point for her exploration into the interior regions, where she plans to encounter the Battak people, notorious for their unique customs and cannibalistic history. Through her initial experiences, the reader is introduced to the lush landscapes and diverse cultures of Sumatra, as well as the various warnings she receives about the dangers that await her in the wild. As Pfeiffer sets off on horseback into the uncharted territories, she embodies the spirit of adventure, determined to document her findings despite the risks involved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75639,500,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75639,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75639,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75640,520,'"Meine zweite Weltreise: Dritter Theil: Kalifornien. Peru. Ecuador." by Ida Pfeiffer is a travelogue written in the mid-19th century. This work details the author''s experiences and observations as she journeys through California, Peru, and Ecuador, exploring the landscapes, cultures, and peoples she encounters along the way. Pfeiffer, a pioneering female traveler of her time, invites readers to experience her adventurous encounters and reflections as she navigates these new territories.  The opening of this travelogue introduces Pfeiffer''s extensive journey from Batavia to San Francisco. Chronicling her experiences aboard the ship Seneca Baltimore, she describes the vast distances traveled over the ocean and her initial impressions of San Francisco upon arrival. She paints a vivid picture of the city''s landscape—an impression that is both awe-inspiring and starkly barren. Pfeiffer offers intricate details about the local society, customs, and the high cost of living there, all while showcasing her keen observational skills and deep interest in the unique cultures she meets, setting the stage for her broader explorations of California, Peru, and Ecuador in subsequent chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75640,500,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75640,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75640,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75641,520,'"Meine zweite Weltreise: Vierter Theil: Vereinigte Staaten von Nordamerika" by Ida Pfeiffer is a travel narrative written in the mid-19th century. The book chronicles the author’s observations and experiences during her journey through the United States, highlighting the culture, geography, and societal issues of the time, particularly focusing on the institution of slavery. Through her candid reflections and detailed descriptions, Pfeiffer provides readers with a unique glimpse into America during an era of significant change.  At the start of the narrative, Pfeiffer arrives in New Orleans, vividly depicting the city’s landscape and its bustling activity. She describes the Mississippi River and the surrounding areas, contrasting their natural beauty with the grim realities of slavery that pervade the region. Through her encounters with enslaved individuals and her observations of their treatment, she expresses deep moral outrage and a critical perspective on the hypocrisy of a society that prides itself on freedom while allowing such inhumanity. This opening sets the tone for her exploration of the contradictions within American society, particularly in the context of race relations and the continuing practice of slavery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75641,500,'Reading ease score: 67.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75641,485);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75641,442);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75642,520,'"Feathers Left Around" by Carolyn Wells is a collection of detective stories written in the early 20th century. The stories follow Fleming Stone, a clever American detective known for his ingenuity and skill in unraveling mysteries, as he encounters various baffling cases. This work promises to engage readers with intriguing plots that challenge the intellect, inviting them into a world of suspense and deduction.  The opening of the book introduces readers to the character of Valentine Loft and his guests enjoying a weekend at his Westchester estate, where a lively discussion about methods of murder ensues. The light-hearted conversation takes a dark turn when Loft''s guest, the author Hugh Curran, is found dead in his locked room under mysterious circumstances. As Loft grapples with the shocking discovery, the tension among the assembled guests rises, leading to a mix of curiosity and dread. This intriguing start hints at a complex interplay of motives and suspects, setting the stage for a compelling murder mystery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75642,500,'Reading ease score: 84.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75642,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75643,520,'"The Black Abbot" by Edgar Wallace is a mystery novel written in the late 1920s. Set in an English estate, the story opens with the Earl of Chelford, who is embroiled in a discussion surrounding the myth of the Black Abbot, a ghost said to haunt Fossaway Manor. As the plot unfolds, themes of family secrets, treasure hunting, and romance intertwine, particularly involving Harry Alford and his brother Dick, along with the enigmatic figure of Leslie Gwyn.   At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Lord Chelford and his footman Thomas as they discuss the sending of treasury notes, along with the eerie legend of the Black Abbot, which visibly agitates Chelford. He sternly warns Thomas against discussing the ghost and reveals his own fears, indicating that there might be more than just superstition at play. Meanwhile, the presence of the disgruntled former secretary, Miss Wenner, introduces a layer of romantic tension and intrigue, especially concerning the Earl’s upcoming marriage and the potential for hidden treasures within the manor''s lore. The beginning deftly sets up a blend of mystery, personal drama, and supernatural elements that will surely engage readers intrigued by tales of haunted estates and the complexities of familial relationships. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75643,500,'Reading ease score: 83.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75643,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75644,520,'"The Sacred Theory of the Earth" by Thomas Burnet is a scientific exploration written in the early 18th century. This text delves into the origins of the Earth, examining major geological events, including the Deluge, and outlines the processes that have shaped the planet over time. The work is structured into two volumes, where the first focuses on past geological changes, particularly the stories of Paradise and the Deluge, while hinting at future transformations, including the eventual conflagration and new heavens.  The opening of the narrative introduces the author''s ambitious goal to investigate both the origin and the significant alterations the Earth has undergone. Burnet emphasizes the necessity of understanding these elements to grasp the divine providence governing nature and humanity''s place within it. He asserts that existing philosophies fall short of adequately explaining the Universal Deluge, prompting a re-evaluation of the commonly accepted accounts. This exploration promises to challenge prevailing notions and encourage a deeper consideration of geological and scriptural interpretations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75644,500,'Reading ease score: 42.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75644,443);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75644,476);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75645,520,'"Con Garibaldi alle porte di Roma: (1867) Ricordi e note" by Anton Giulio Barrili is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The work reflects on the events surrounding the campaign to liberate Rome during the 1867 Garibaldi expedition, capturing the spirit and sentiments of those involved in this pivotal chapter of Italian unification. The narrative primarily involves the perspective of the unnamed protagonist and his companions as they navigate the challenges of their mission.  The opening portion of the book introduces the author’s reminiscence of the desperate and yet ardent yearning to support Garibaldi''s efforts to liberate Rome from papal control. The narrator recounts the difficulty of leaving Genova amidst the scrutiny of authorities, outlining the concerns over government restrictions and the urgency felt by those wanting to join the struggle. As he prepares to embark on his journey, he reflects on his comrades and their bravery while vividly illustrating the landscapes, political tensions, and personal reflections that accompany their endeavor. The mix of adventure, personal struggle, and camaraderie sets the tone for a poignant exploration of historical heroism against the backdrop of a crucial moment in Italy''s path to unification. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75645,500,'Reading ease score: 42.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75645,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75646,520,'"The Astounding Crime on Torrington Road" by William Gillette is a narrative likely written in the early 20th century. This intriguing account appears to delve into a gripping criminal case, centering around characters involved in a complex plot, including a staff reporter, Horace McClintock, and potential suspects like Hugo Pentecost and Stephen W. Harker. The story seems to promise a blend of investigation and drama, inviting readers into a world of audacity and deception.  The opening of the narrative introduces us to Horace McClintock, a New York reporter who is dispatched to Boston, where he coincidentally meets Andrew H. Barnes, a man connected to a mysterious case involving a young man named Jamie Dreek. As McClintock narrates his earlier experiences trailing Dreek during a train ride, we learn about ominous events tied to the houses located on Torrington Road. Barnes, meanwhile, has been observing this case for two years, compellingly hinting at its intricate nature as he seeks a reporter to help transcribe his findings about the strange occurrences linked to the Haworth family and a historic mansion. The tension mounts as McClintock weighs the ethical implications of involving himself in this sensational account. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75646,500,'Reading ease score: 78.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75646,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75646,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75647,520,'"Kuin unta näkeväiset... : Päiväkirjanlehtiä" by Helene Christaller is a collection of diary entries written in the early 20th century. The work explores the thoughts and feelings of the main character, a sick man grappling with his existential despair while residing in a sanatorium amidst the natural beauty of the Schwarzwald. The narrative delves into themes of illness, isolation, and the longing for connection.  The opening portion presents the protagonist reflecting on his deteriorating health and the sorrow that accompanies his diagnosis of tuberculosis. He describes a recent encounter with his doctor, who advised him to seek a quiet place, revealing the man''s sense of impending doom and his internal struggle with despair. The diary sketches a vivid portrait of his surroundings and a deep yearning for love and meaning in a life overshadowed by illness. As he interacts with the few people in his life, including a devoted innkeeper and a young teacher, he wrestles with feelings of bitterness and self-reflection, setting the stage for a poignant exploration of the human condition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75647,500,'Reading ease score: 41.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75647,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75647,469);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75648,520,'"Kurjet" by Maila Talvio is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book explores themes of family, shame, and societal expectations through the lens of the Tuuna family, particularly focusing on the protagonist, Riikka Tuuna. As the narrative unfolds, we delve into the emotional turmoil and conflicts within the Tuuna household as they grapple with a sense of disgrace tied to their neighbor’s actions.  The opening of "Kurjet" introduces Riikka Tuuna as she lays awake in her bed, enveloped in a profound sense of shame and unrest. The narrative paints a picture of a cold February night, where Riikka reflects on the changes in her life and the lives of her family members due to a recent scandal involving her brother and their neighbor’s wife, Sylvi. As she anxiously awaits her brother Toivo''s return, the tension mounts, revealing her internal struggles, memories of her past, and anxieties about the present situation. The atmosphere is charged with a mix of nostalgia and foreboding, hinting at the conflicts that will unravel in the relationships governed by family loyalty and societal judgment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75648,500,'Reading ease score: 53.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75648,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75648,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75649,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0319: Het komplot tegen Judenitsch" by Kurt Matull et al. is a historical fiction novel written in the early 20th century. The story is set against the backdrop of the Russian Civil War and follows the character John Raffles, who is disguised as Count Finsbury. Aided by his companions Charly Brand and James Henderson, Raffles becomes entangled in a dangerous struggle between the Red and White factions as they attempt to navigate this treacherous landscape while also seeking a kidnapped young woman.  At the start of the narrative, the trio is traveling through a snowy plain, facing the harsh elements of winter and the looming conflict in Russia. Raffles and his friends are motivated by the need to rescue Ilja Sicorsky, the fiancée of their friend, who has been captured by a White officer. As they navigate their way through hostile territories and avoid detection, they encounter a patrol of White soldiers, leading to a tense standoff where their allegiances come into question. The opening establishes a thrilling atmosphere filled with danger and deception, setting the stage for the characters'' evolving missions amidst the chaos of war. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75649,500,'Reading ease score: 68.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75649,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75649,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75650,520,'"Report to Hon. A. V. Brown, Postmaster-General: on the Opening and Present Condition of the United States Overland Mail Route between San Antonio, Texas, and San Diego, California" by I. C. Wood is a comprehensive report detailing the establishment and current status of a crucial mail service, written in the mid-19th century. The document presents an in-depth examination of the mail route''s geography, logistics, and operational challenges as Wood navigates the complexities of setting up this overland mail service. The report includes observations based on Wood''s firsthand travel experience across this rugged terrain.  The opening portion of the report outlines the author’s journey and intricate preparations for the inaugural mail runs. It details Wood''s contracting responsibilities, the logistical hurdles he faced while assembling the necessary resources, and the construction of the mail route, which involved overcoming various natural obstacles and establishing supply stations. Wood''s narrative begins with the historical context of the mail line and quickly transitions into his personal experiences, including hiring workers, managing supplies, and dealing with the interactions with local tribes, reflecting the multifaceted challenges of operating a mail service in such a demanding environment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75650,500,'Reading ease score: 65.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75650,442);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75650,485);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75651,520,'"Kenyér" by Ernő Szép is a reflective and contemplative novel likely written during the early 20th century. The text delves into themes of human existence, suffering, and the stark realities of life during wartime. Through intimate observations and philosophical musings, it grapples with the human condition and the meaning of happiness amidst chaos and sorrow.  At the start of the novel, the author engages the reader with a direct address, encouraging them to examine the themes of life, death, and the fleeting nature of happiness. He reflects on the surreal experiences of existence, introducing a white dog and a sparrow in a playful yet insightful scene that symbolizes the contrast between innocent joy and existential angst. The narrative evolves to evoke the broader context of suffering, particularly through a vignette depicting a blind beggar singing for the kindness of strangers. Through its opening, the text sets the stage for deeper explorations of human emotions and social commentary against a backdrop of war, emphasizing the impermanence of joy and the pervasive nature of pain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75651,500,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75651,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75651,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75652,520,'"The Old Man''s Home" by the Rev. William Adams, M.A. is a poignant fictional narrative published in the mid-19th century, specifically in 1848. The book tells the touching story of an elderly man who believes he is on a journey to reunite with his late wife and children. The text explores deep themes of loneliness, hope, loss, and the nature of reality versus perception.   The narrative unfolds as the protagonist encounters the old man while he is wandering in a picturesque part of the Isle of Wight. Through their conversations, the reader learns of the old man''s lifelong grief over his family, all of whom have long passed away. As he reveals his belief in returning home, it becomes evident that his perceived madness is interwoven with profound wisdom about love, memory, and the essence of faith. The story culminates with the old man''s passing, which serves as a serene conclusion, tying together the themes of homecoming and the eternal bond of family. Ultimately, the book invites readers to reflect on the meaning of home and belonging, both in life and beyond. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75652,500,'Reading ease score: 70.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75652,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75652,463);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75653,520,'"The Treasure on the Beach" by Julian Street and Frank Finney is a light-hearted adventure novel written in the early 20th century. The story revolves around the hunt for hidden treasure, sparked by the late Uncle Abner''s eccentric letter and treasure map. Set against the backdrop of Florida''s sandy shores, this narrative explores themes of family, adventure, and unexpected romance.  The plot follows Allen Spencer, who, upon receiving a letter from his great uncle Abner, decides to travel to Lone Palm Key to seek buried treasure. He soon discovers he has competition in the form of a distant relative, Graham Stewart. Their journeys lead them to work together in a series of comedic and romantic interactions as they dig for treasure, only to find it''s more of a ruse than a reality. Their search takes unexpected turns, and through shared challenges, romantic sparks fly between the duo. The entertaining mix of treasure hunting and budding romance presents readers with a charming tale about unexpected connections and the true meaning of treasure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75653,500,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75653,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75653,433);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75654,520,'"The Story of Utopias" by Lewis Mumford is a critical examination of utopian thought, showcasing its evolution and significance throughout history, likely written in the early 20th century. The text engages with various ideal commonwealths and expresses how these constructs influence humanity''s vision of a better life. Rather than focusing solely on fictional narratives, it intertwines philosophical discourse with historical accounts, thereby demonstrating the relevance of utopia in shaping societal values and structures.  At the start of Mumford''s exploration, he introduces the concept of utopia as a necessary counterpart to the realities of human existence, highlighting the dual worlds people inhabit: the practical and the ideal. He elaborates on how the desire for a utopian society inspires individuals to seek change and improvement in their environment. Mumford also reflects on the importance of ideas, presenting them as pivotal to human progress and illustrating how dreams of utopia often stem from societal crises. In this initial section, he establishes a framework for understanding utopian ideals as both a refuge from the harshness of reality and a motivation for societal reconstruction. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75654,500,'Reading ease score: 48.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75654,466);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75654,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75655,520,'"Moufflou, and other stories" by Ouida is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book primarily revolves around themes of love, sacrifice, and the bonds between humans and animals, with a particular focus on the charming poodle named Moufflou and his interactions with a poor family living in Florence. The stories reflect the struggles of the characters against societal challenges and their relationships with their beloved pets.  In the titular story, "Moufflou," the narrative follows a poor family, whose members cherish their poodle, Moufflou, and the joy he brings. The eldest son, Tasso, works hard to support the family, while his young, crippled brother Lolo forms a special bond with Moufflou. As the story unfolds, the family faces the harsh reality of military conscription and the difficult decision of selling Moufflou to pay for a substitute for Tasso. This heartbreaking choice leads to emotional turmoil for Lolo, who falls ill from the loss of his beloved dog. However, the story culminates in a touching reunion when Moufflou finds his way back home, showcasing the themes of loyalty and the deep emotional ties between pets and their owners. The additional stories in the collection also explore various facets of life, nature, and the human experience, woven together with Ouida''s characteristic flair for vivid descriptions and emotional depth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75655,500,'Reading ease score: 73.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75655,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75655,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75656,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, Fifth Series, No. 150" is a periodical publication that includes a variety of content such as articles on literature, science, and art, likely reflecting the interests of readers in the late 19th century. As indicated by its title and style, it belongs to a series aimed at both educating and entertaining the general public. This edition, published in the late 1880s, captures the spirit of the time by addressing topics relevant to the daily lives and intellectual curiosities of its audience.  The content of this issue includes a diverse range of topics, with a notable focus on the dynamics of portable theatre, showcasing itinerant actors and their challenges. It illustrates the struggles of performers who travel from town to town, setting up temporary stages and entertaining local audiences while navigating the precarious nature of their profession. Among the sketches are vivid portrayals of individual characters, such as the ambitious manager and the hard-working actors, each contributing to a rich tableau of life in the performing arts. Additionally, the journal explores stories that touch on personal relationships and social issues, such as the ethical dilemmas faced by characters caught in deceptive circumstances, thereby offering both narrative and moral complexities that would resonate with contemporary readers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75656,500,'Reading ease score: 67.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75656,454);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75656,465);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75657,520,'"Following Heavenward: or, The Story of Alfred Reid" by Pansy is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book follows the journey of the main character, Alfred Reid, as he grapples with the legacy of his late sister, Esther Reid, who was a compassionate soul dedicated to helping the underprivileged. The narrative explores themes of duty, social responsibility, and the complexities of human relationships, particularly in the context of urban poverty.  The opening of the story introduces a rain-soaked city where Alfred Reid, a young clerk, reflects on the impactful life of his sister, expressing confusion and sorrow over how to help a group of troubled boys she had cared for. His internal struggle becomes apparent as he feels inadequate to continue her work. Concurrently, we are introduced to Mrs. Roberts, an elegantly dressed woman interested in Alfred’s sister''s life. They quickly engage in a conversation about the boys of whom Alfred speaks, revealing a shared desire to assist them. As Mrs. Roberts volunteers to take on the challenge of teaching a difficult children''s class, Alfred’s reservations about her capabilities highlight the tension between privilege and outreach, setting the stage for their eventual collaboration and the unfolding narrative of compassion and community involvement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75657,500,'Reading ease score: 79.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75657,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75657,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75658,520,'"En Mand gik ned fra Jerusalem: skuespil i tre akter" by Helge Rode is a theatrical play written in the early 20th century. The narrative unfolds in Switzerland and revolves around themes of war, refuge, and the complexities of human relationships amid conflict. Central to the plot are characters like Doctor Stern, an engineer and writer, and his adopted son Henrik, who grapple with their identities and moral dilemmas against the backdrop of World War I.  The opening of the play introduces us to a bright villa and its surrounding garden, setting a contrasting backdrop to the discussions of war and conflict taking place inside. Conversations among the characters reveal personal grievances and conflicts shaped by the war''s impact on their lives, particularly highlighting Doctor Stern''s humanitarian efforts mixed with his complex feelings about his identity and family. As family members and associates gather, the tension between personal beliefs and societal expectations unravels, particularly regarding the return of Henrik and his connections to the war. This lively opening setting is both dramatic and reflective, drawing the reader into the intricate interplay of personal and political themes that define the characters'' lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75658,500,'Reading ease score: 95.3 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75658,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75658,451);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75659,520,'"Flora of the Sudan" by A. F. Broun and R. E. Massey is a scientific publication written in the late 1920s. This comprehensive work serves as a detailed catalogue of flowering plants found in the Sudan, featuring extensive sections on plant families, genera, and species, alongside vernacular names and economic uses. It aims to provide a systematic enumeration of the plant life in the region, incorporating contributions from a variety of botanists and previous studies.  At the start of the publication, the authors recount the development of their catalogue, mentioning initial efforts that occurred after the appointment of Broun as the Director of Woods and Forests. They discuss the collection of plant samples during numerous field trips, the assistance received from various individuals in documenting the local flora, and the evolution of the catalogue''s format over the years. The opening sets the foundation for a thorough investigation of botanical diversity while highlighting the collaborative work that made the publication possible. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75659,500,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75659,476);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75659,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75660,520,'"Uno dei Mille della Spedizione Garibaldina nel Mezzodì d''Italia" by Vittore Ottolini is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. The narrative revolves around the life and adventures of Roberto, a young painter who finds himself drawn into the events surrounding Giuseppe Garibaldi''s campaign in Italy. The book explores themes of love, patriotism, and the struggles faced by individuals amid the turmoil of their time.  The opening of the novel introduces Roberto as he arrives at an inn in Albese, hungry and eager to savor the beauty of the Italian countryside. He reflects on his aspirations, dreams of a pastoral life, and his worries about a beloved named Dalia, an orphaned girl he cares for. As Roberto admires the stunning panorama around him, he yearns to escape the confines of his artistic routine in Milan and imagines a rustic life filled with friendship and joy. However, the arrival of a letter changes the course of his thoughts, drawing him back into the reality of a world facing significant change, hinting at the adventure that lies ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75660,500,'Reading ease score: 45.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75660,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75660,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75661,520,'"Meren ja lemmen aallot" by Franz Grillparzer is a play written in the early 20th century, which explores themes of love, destiny, and the duties of priesthood through the lens of Greek mythology. The story centers around the character Hero, a priestess of Aphrodite, as she prepares for a significant ceremony and reflects on her past, relationships, and the influence of love in her life.  The opening of the play establishes a lively temple setting in Sestos where Hero sets about preparing for a festival honoring the goddess Aphrodite. As she engages with Ianthe and the temple staff, Hero grapples with her emotions and the weight of her priestly responsibilities, which starkly contrast with her yearning for personal connection. The arrival of her family adds complexity to her inner conflict as Hero''s past interactions and unresolved feelings surface, hinting at future challenges she may face in reconciling her duties as a priestess with her human desires for love and companionship, notably as she interacts with two young men, Naukleros and Leander, who represent the allure of the outside world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75661,500,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75661,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75661,470);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75662,520,'"Metsän koululaiset" by William J. Long is a collection of animal stories written in the early 20th century. This work incorporates observations and narratives about various creatures living in the forest, focusing particularly on their behaviors and the lessons they learn through experience and parental guidance. The book aims to illustrate the education and survival instincts of wildlife, emphasizing the connection between instinct, learning, and nature.  At the start of this collection, the reader is introduced to the author''s pioneering observations of wildlife in their natural habitat. The opening chapter describes the author''s encounter with newborn mountain goat kids hidden beneath a fallen tree trunk, showcasing their novelty and innocence. As he interacts with them, themes of instinctual behavior and the guidance provided by their mother are highlighted, along with the gentle beauty of nature and the implicit lessons learned by these young animals. Through vivid descriptions, Long paints a portrait of life in the forest, where each creature has its own story shaped by parental instruction and the inherent understanding of their environment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75662,500,'Reading ease score: 36.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75662,461);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75662,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75663,520,'"Porridge Poetry: Cooked, Ornamented and Served Up by Hugh Lofting" by Hugh Lofting is a whimsical collection of children''s poetry written in the early 20th century. This book showcases a delightful array of playful verses that explore themes of food, nature, and the imagination, presented with Lofting''s signature lighthearted and humorous style. The poems are designed to amuse and engage young readers, blending simple narratives with imaginative scenarios.  The collection features a variety of characters and whimsical situations, such as the Porridge Poet who concocts rhymes from kitchen ingredients, and the dancing Lollipopinjay who embodies joy and liveliness. Each poem is vividly illustrated and brings whimsical stories to life, from a pirate navigating the kitchen sink to a vegetable school where turnips learn manners. With a light tone and imaginative storytelling, "Porridge Poetry" serves as both an engaging read for children and a playful celebration of the joy found in everyday life and culinary adventures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75663,500,'Reading ease score: 75.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75663,429);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75663,467);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75664,520,'"Address Delivered Before the British Association Assembled at Belfast" by John Tyndall is a scientific address written in the late 19th century. The work explores the relationship between the advancement of science and the historical and philosophical implications of belief systems, particularly in relation to religion and materialism. Tyndall engages in a critical examination of how scientific thought has evolved and often diverged from traditional religious beliefs, advocating for a more rational understanding of natural phenomena.  At the start of the address, Tyndall reflects on the inherent curiosity of humanity regarding the forces that govern natural phenomena, contrasting early anthropomorphic views of deities with modern scientific reasoning. He discusses the shift from perceiving gods as human-like to understanding natural events through the lens of physical laws. By citing historical figures such as Democritus and Epicurus, he illustrates the development of atomic theory and its implications for understanding existence, ultimately laying the groundwork for discussions on the interplay of science, philosophy, and religion. Throughout, Tyndall emphasizes the need for a rational examination of the universe that does not default to antiquated notions of divine intervention. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75664,500,'Reading ease score: 54.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75664,478);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75664,466);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75665,520,'"Outcast Robin: or, Your Brother and Mine: A Cry from the Great City" by L.T. Meade is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story presents a poignant portrayal of poverty and child neglect in urban settings, emphasizing societal failures and the dire consequences for innocent lives. Central to the narrative is Robin, a baby born into a chaotic and impoverished family, whose early life is marked by the absence of nurturing parental care.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to the Timbs family in Blind Alley, London. The bleak circumstances of Robin''s birth are revealed alongside his dying mother’s final wishes for her children. Immediately after her death, Robin is handed off, ultimately ending up in a workhouse after being abandoned by his alcoholic father. The opening sets a deeply emotional tone, vividly illustrating the harsh realities faced by the family as they struggle against adversity, thus foreshadowing Robin''s tumultuous journey through childhood in a world rife with neglect and hardship. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75665,500,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75665,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75665,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75666,520,'"Hay Fever: A Light Comedy in Three Acts" by Noël Coward is a theatrical play written in the early 20th century. This comedy revolves around the interactions of a spirited family, the Blisses, who invite guests to their home over a weekend, leading to humorous misunderstandings and a chaotic atmosphere. The main characters include Judith Bliss, a once-celebrated actress, her two grown children Sorel and Simon, and their unexpected visitors, which set the stage for unfolding comedic tension.  At the start of the play, the audience is introduced to the Bliss family through lively banter between Sorel and Simon as they prepare for the arrival of guests. Their mother, Judith, is seen admiring her garden and discussing her desire to return to the stage, indicating her restless spirit. As Sorel expresses a crush on a visitor named Richard Greatham, tension builds over the various dynamics and past relationships among the characters. The chaotic household is further compounded by Judith''s flirtation with a younger man, Sandy Tyrell, who is also present for the weekend. This rich tapestry of comedic misunderstandings, quirky family dynamics, and romantic entanglements promises an entertaining exploration of social conventions and the complexities of family life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75666,500,'Reading ease score: 88.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75666,465);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75666,453);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75667,520,'"Scots proverbs, ancient and modern, selected from Allan Ramsay and others by Ramsay" is a compilation of traditional Scottish proverbs that highlights the wisdom and humor of Scottish culture through concise and clever sayings. Published in the early 19th century, this collection serves not only as a reflection of societal norms and attitudes of the time but also presents a linguistic glimpse into the Scots language, rich with idiomatic expressions. The likely topic of the book revolves around life lessons, moral guidance, and practical truths conveyed through folk wisdom.  The content of the book is a diverse collection of proverbs, each packed with meaning and insight into human behavior and social interactions. They cover various aspects of life, from advice on friendship and love to warnings about greed and foolishness. For instance, sayings like "A fool and his money are soon parted" illustrate the pitfalls of impulsive behavior, while "A friend in need''s a friend indeed" emphasizes the value of loyalty and support. Many of these proverbs capture universal themes, making them relevant across time and culture, while also shedding light on the particularities of Scottish life and humor. Overall, the book serves as both a language artifact and a source of practical wisdom, enticing readers interested in culture, advice, or simply the charm of Scottish folklore. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75667,500,'Reading ease score: 97.1 (5th grade). Very easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75667,456);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75667,432);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75668,520,'"The Strange Career of the Chevalier D''Eon de Beaumont: Minister Plenipotentiary from France to Great Britain in 1763" by Captain J. Buchan Telfer is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The book explores the life of the Chevalier D''Eon, a prominent figure in 18th-century France whose ambiguous gender identity and roles as a diplomat and spy during intense political times create a fascinating narrative. The main focus is on D''Eon''s unique career, including his secret correspondence for Louis XV and significant interactions within European courts.  The opening of the account provides a detailed preface about Louis XV''s secret correspondence and reveals D''Eon''s early years, background, and training. Telfer sets the stage by discussing D''Eon''s role as a secret agent for the King and foreshadows the extraordinary life awaiting the Chevalier. The narrative portrays D''Eon as a complex individual navigating a world that often constrained personal identity within rigid societal norms while simultaneously serving as an influential player in the geopolitical landscape of his time. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75668,500,'Reading ease score: 58.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75668,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75668,445);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75669,520,'"The Templeton Case" by Victor L. Whitechurch is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story opens in the quaint seaside village of Marsh Quay, where the characters and setting lay the foundation for a mystery involving murder, intrigue, and clues that weave together the lives of various individuals, particularly revolving around the enigmatic Reginald Templeton. Readers can expect to delve into a web of relationships and secrets as Detective-Sergeant Colson pursues the truth behind the crime.  At the start of the novel, we are introduced to Tom Gale, a laid-back crewman of a small schooner, and the arrival of Reginald Templeton on a yacht. Templeton''s engagement in boating and a mysterious visit across the estuary hint at deeper connections and potential motives. As Templeton''s fate takes a grim turn with his murder discovered soon after by his crew member, Jim Webb, the tension escalates. Characters like Mrs. Yates, the landlady of the "Mariner’s Arms," and Mr. Proctor, a local gentleman, become entwined in the unfolding investigation. The narrative expertly sets the stage for a classic whodunit, promising misdirection and evolving clues as Detective-Sergeant Colson works diligently to untangle the mystery surrounding Templeton''s death. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75669,500,'Reading ease score: 85.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75669,433);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75669,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75670,520,'"Chemische Unterhaltungen" by Ludwig Wunder is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. This work aims to demystify various concepts in chemistry by using informal conversational formats, such as letters and dialogues, to make complex topics more accessible to readers. The book covers fundamental principles of chemistry, including the nature of combustion, the differences between chemical and physical processes, and a discussion of atomic and molecular theories.  At the start of the text, the author sets the stage by explaining the importance of practical experiments in understanding chemistry, emphasizing that mere theoretical knowledge from books is insufficient. The opening chapter begins with a letter addressing a friend, discussing whether a layperson can grasp chemical concepts through self-study. Ludwig Wunder argues that, akin to learning a foreign language, a hands-on approach with experiments is essential. He conveys the idea that effective chemistry education must involve active engagement with the subject matter through experimentation rather than relying solely on textbook learning. This sets the tone for the following chapters, which will delve deeper into specific chemical processes and theories through engaging dialogues and reflections. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75670,500,'Reading ease score: 60.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75670,475);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75670,478);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58091,'de.wikipedia','https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ludwig_Wunder');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75671,520,'"Essays on Horse Subjects" by F. C. Grenside is a collection of essays centered on various aspects of horse management and care, written in the early 20th century. The essays draw upon Grenside''s extensive experience as a practical horseman and veterinarian, addressing topics often overlooked in equine literature. The text aims to illuminate the complex interplay between horse anatomy, care, and performance, offering insights valuable to both horse owners and trainers.  The opening of the collection lays out the author''s intent and establishes the purpose of the essays. Grenside explains that the essays were born from his contributions to equine publications and aim to fill a gap in horse-related literature. He emphasizes the importance of understanding concepts like "quality" in horses—what it means, its attributes, and its implications for breeding and performance. He passionately discusses how various physical traits can affect a horse''s health and performance, setting the stage for the essays that will follow, which promise to offer practical advice based on both scientific understanding and hands-on experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75671,500,'Reading ease score: 60.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75671,461);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75672,520,'"Röschen, Jaköble und andere kleine Leute" by Anna Schieber is a children''s storybook written in the early 20th century. This collection features charming tales that explore themes of kindness, generosity, and childhood adventures, centered around the titular characters, Röschen and Jaköble, who experience various life lessons and encounters that resonate with young readers.  At the start of the book, we are introduced to Röschen, a cheerful child living in a modest home on the edge of a village. Despite her family''s poverty, Röschen finds joy in her surroundings and in helping others, as demonstrated when she shares her bread with a hungry old man, much to her mother’s chagrin. The narrative establishes her kindhearted nature as she navigates friendships and small adventures with local children, including a playful exchange to retrieve a lost silver watch and a plan to surprise her mother on her birthday with hidden gifts. This opening section sets a tone of warmth and innocence, inviting readers into a world where simple actions embody larger virtues of love and compassion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75672,500,'Reading ease score: 88.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75672,429);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75673,520,'"Gordon: der Held von Khartum" by Anonymous is a biographical account likely written in the late 19th century. This work details the life and achievements of Charles George Gordon, a British army officer known for his service in various military campaigns, particularly in China and in Africa. The book explores Gordon''s early years, his military experiences, and his eventual rise to fame as a figure of heroism and moral conviction, especially in the context of his involvement in the Sudan.  The opening of the biography presents a brief overview of Gordon''s ancestry and upbringing, particularly emphasizing his Scottish heritage and military family. It describes his childhood as one marked by contradictions; he was known to be timid and sensitive yet exhibited courage and resourcefulness in various childhood exploits. The narrative gives insight into the formative experiences that shaped his character, such as his participation in the Crimean War, reinforcing themes of duty and faith that would define his later life. In this initial section, the groundwork is laid for understanding the complexities of Gordon''s personality and the historical backdrop against which he developed into a notable military leader. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75673,500,'Reading ease score: 67.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75673,427);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75673,444);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75674,520,'"Valentine: Regény" by Ernő Szép is a novel likely written in the early 20th century. The story unfolds in a romantic and vibrant setting, focusing on the lives of two primary characters, Valentine Poóy and György Békász, as they navigate love and relationships in the picturesque backdrop of Venice.  The opening of the narrative introduces readers to a couple dining at the elegant Danieli hotel, depicting their intimate exchange filled with humor and tenderness. The lavish atmosphere is rich with sensory details, from the wine they''re enjoying to the enchanting vibe of the restaurant. As György and Valentine share playful banter, it becomes evident that their relationship is both affectionate and youthful, characterized by playful teasing and romantic dreams of the future. This whimsical introduction sets the stage for a larger exploration of their lives and the complexities of love and societal expectations, providing a glimpse into the charming yet complicated relationships that will unfold throughout the novel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75674,500,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75674,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75674,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75675,520,'"Following Darkness" by Forrest Reid is a novel written in the early 20th century. The narrative revolves around an unfinished autobiography of Peter Waring, a young man who reflects on his life, his friendships, and his experiences, particularly his relationship with the world of art and the influences that shape his identity. The book delves into Peter''s introspective thoughts, emotional struggles, and his ambivalence towards societal norms and personal connections.  The opening of "Following Darkness" presents a reflective Peter Waring, caught between the memories of his childhood and the present moment in Italy where he is staying. As he attempts to immerse himself in the task of writing, he finds himself instead reminiscing about his past, exploring themes of youth, art, and personal longing. The narrative is intertwined with encounters, such as the poignant memories of his friend Owen Gill and familial relationships that reveal Peter''s complex feelings towards love and creativity. Through a series of vivid impressions and experiences, Peter navigates his connections and aspirations, setting the stage for a deeper exploration of identity and artistic expression throughout the text. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75675,500,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75675,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75675,458);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75676,520,'"Two Secrets and A Man of His Word" by Hesba Stretton is a poignant novel likely written in the late 19th century. The story revolves around a tight-knit family consisting of Joanna, her invalid daughter Charlotte, and her husband Amos, who is a dedicated postman. As they navigate their humble lives, the narrative hints at deeper challenges that will test their bond and reveal secrets that may alter the course of their lives.  At the start of the narrative, we are introduced to Joanna''s charming cottage, emblematic of their simple yet fulfilling life filled with love and contentment. Joanna dotes on her daughter Charlotte, whose spinal condition confines her to the attic, while Amos finds joy in his routine as a rural postman. The tranquility of their life is shattered when Amos is late returning home after rescuing a drowning child, ultimately causing him a bout of rheumatic fever after he attempts to deliver important mail. Meanwhile, Joanna faces an impending crisis when she receives troubling news about their cottage''s ownership, revealing the precariousness of their situation and hinting at secrets that remain to be uncovered as the story progresses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75676,500,'Reading ease score: 76.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75676,486);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75677,520,'"Told by an Idiot" by Rose Macaulay is a novel written in the early 20th century. The story begins in a Victorian setting, focusing on the Garden family, particularly around the figure of Mr. Aubrey Garden, an Anglican clergyman who frequently experiences crises of faith. The characters include his six children and their mother, each with their distinct personalities and perspectives on faith, politics, and social issues. The book captures the family’s struggles with changes in belief systems and the implications of their father''s shifting religious convictions.  At the start of the novel, the eldest child, Victoria, expresses frustration over her father''s recurring loss of faith, leading the family to consider joining the Ethical Society. The narrative introduces her siblings, including the rationalist Maurice and the idealistic Stanley, who embody the tensions of their time—balancing personal beliefs against societal expectations. The discussions among the family members reveal their differing worldviews, highlighting the interplay between modernity, tradition, and the quest for meaning. This opening portion sets the stage for a social commentary that explores themes of faith, identity, and familial dynamics in the face of change. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (75677,500,'Reading ease score: 72.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75677,486);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (75677,432);
