insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76688,520,'"Fundamentals of fiction writing" by Arthur Sullivant Hoffman is a guidebook on writing fiction written in the early 20th century. It centers on how to craft stories that genuinely grip readers by creating and preserving an absorbing illusion. Emphasizing clarity, simplicity, and individuality over rigid technique, it offers practical, market-aware advice on plot, character, style, and audience.  The opening of the book lays out the author’s purpose, credentials, and method: an editor’s-eye view that treats the reader as a core part of the art process. He argues that modern teaching overvalues technique and imitation, and that real success comes from simplicity, clearness, and maintaining the story’s illusion. He distinguishes straight fiction from fiction-as-vehicle (philosophy, instruction, sermon), warns how easily illusion is broken, and shares an illustrative writer’s letter rejecting formulaic “Ford-like” stories. He then proposes three audience strategies (ignore, target, or broaden) and urges writers to study real human reactions. Practical chapters catalog common breakers of illusion—unfamiliar words, foreign phrases, showy allusions, odd names, dialect, authorial intrusions, inconsistencies—and explain how to ensure clarity in names, dialogue, and scene logic. He also cautions against overstrain, advocating brevity, varied sentence length, relief scenes, and simpler plots (with special notes on frames and mystery stories), before moving into a discussion of convincingness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76688,908,'Reading ease score: 52.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76688,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76688,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76689,520,'"Snow-blind" by Albert M. Treynor is a novel written in the early 20th century. It’s a northern adventure-mystery set among the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the subarctic wilderness. The story centers on Kitchener Tearl’s pursuit of a cryptic radio message that propels him after his estranged brother, Sergeant Buck Tearl, and toward the long-cold mystery of their missing father. Along the way he collides with the guarded Diane and a violent ex-con, Simeon Bent, as law, loyalty, and survival intertwine in the snowbound North.  The opening of the novel begins with a radio broadcast to an RCMP outpost that Kitchener Tearl overhears in New York, stirring old family wounds: a grandfather who served the Hudson’s Bay Company, a father–Inspector Bill Tearl–who vanished twelve years earlier, and a fugitive brother, Jerry. Kit rushes north through Port-o’-Prayer, hires dogs, and falls in with a wary, scarred traveler who calls himself Jim; a night-time glimpse at the man’s ivory-handled revolver reveals it once belonged to Kit’s father. Reunited in the woods with Jerry—now Sergeant Buck—Kit learns of a gold-laden sledge, a murdered woman at Great Owl Run, and the likely guilt of Simeon Bent, while Jerry hints at a distant Inuit band led by a white man who wears a police badge. After a tense encounter with Diane, who seeks her “uncle” Jim Durand and denies sending the broadcast, the brothers agree to split: Kit will assume Jerry’s post at Saut Sauvage and shadow Bent, while Jerry heads toward Queen Maud Sea to chase the rumor that the dead do not always die. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76689,908,'Reading ease score: 78.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76689,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76689,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76689,640);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76690,520,'"The Land of the Sky; or, Adventures in Mountain By-Ways" by Christian Reid is a travel narrative written in the late 19th century. It follows a lively party—an observant female narrator, her spirited sister Sylvia, their formidable Aunt Markham, and companions Eric, Charley, and Rupert—on a summer ramble across the Blue Ridge into Western North Carolina. Expect exuberant nature writing, local color, and light romantic and social comedy woven through stagecoach jolts, mountain climbs, and spa-town encounters in and around Asheville.  At the start of the narrative, the family debates how to reach the mountains, finally sending their carriage and horses one way while they take the railroad to Old Fort and a stage over Swannanoa Gap with famed driver John Pence. After a brace breaks and a tunnel-side pause, they ascend through streams, laurel, and precipices to a glorious summit view, then descend by moonlight along the Swannanoa to arrive in Asheville. The next day brings bright surveys of the hilltop town, a chance meeting with the charming Creole siblings Adèle and Victor Dupont, a detour to the French Broad and Deaver’s Springs for sulphur water, and a sunset-and-moonrise rapture atop Beaucatcher, followed by Victor’s music at the hotel. At dawn Sylvia and Victor ride back to Beaucatcher to witness a sea of mist at sunrise, then explore the Swannanoa valley; later, fording the river on an afternoon ride, they encounter Ralph Lanier—an ardent acquaintance—hinting that romantic entanglements will accompany the scenic touring. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76690,908,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76690,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76690,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76691,520,'"Goethe and Schiller''s Xenions by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller" is a collection of satirical epigrams written in the late 18th century. Cast in classical elegiac distichs, the work blends literary polemic with philosophical reflection, targeting critics and cultural trends while defending a higher ideal of art and thought. The likely topic is a sharp, witty defense of reason, taste, and moral seriousness against philistinism, sentimentality, and shallow rationalism, framed as brief, pointed couplets.  The book begins with an account of the Xenions’ origin and their classical form, then presents the poems in themed groups. “Introductory” declares the poets’ purpose; “Soul and World” distills ideas on reason, nature, fate, and immortality; “Critical and Literary” assails dull reviewers and hollow trends; “Satirical and Personal” lampoons named figures like Nicolai and the Stolbergs; “The Philosophers in Hades” stages a brisk underworld colloquy with Descartes, Spinoza, Berkeley, Leibniz, Kant, Hume, Fichte, and others; “Philosophical Problems” weighs empiricism, system-building, teleology, and duty; “Science and Art” contrasts genius and imitation, poetry and natural science, and celebrates bold discovery through the figure of Columbus; and “Wisdom, Morality and Religion” offers compact maxims on virtue, truth versus error, ritual, mysticism, and the unity behind change. Extensive notes clarify names, quarrels, and allusions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76691,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenien',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76691,908,'Reading ease score: 70.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76691,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76691,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76691,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76691,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76692,520,'"Hunger" by Knut Hamsun is a novel written in the late 19th century. It is a stark, psychologically intimate portrait of a destitute young writer wandering Christiania, tracing his pride, imagination, and desperation as hunger frays his mind. The focus is less on plot than on a vivid inner life—restless thoughts, sudden exaltations, and humiliations—rendered in intense, impressionistic prose.  The opening of the novel follows an unnamed aspiring writer as he wakes in a bare attic, broke and hungry, and drifts through Christiania trying to write, find work, and keep his dignity. He pawns his waistcoat to give a coin to a lame stranger, buys a meager meal, and oscillates between grand ideas (new essays and “philosophical” treatises) and erratic impulses (taunting a woman he dubs Ylajali, spinning lies for a credulous old man). He submits a literary sketch to a newspaper and clings to hope while dodging his landlady, then abandons his room and spends a cold, miserable night in the woods. Hunger sharpens and distorts his perceptions; small slights enrage him, and brief bursts of inspiration give way to emptiness. By the end of this opening, rebuffed for a bookkeeping job over a foolish date error, he is weakened and ashamed, yet still forcing a polite front as he tries to seize any chance—such as an advertised job helping an invalid—that might keep him going. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76692,908,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76692,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76692,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76693,520,'"The care of the skin and hair :  and other general health hints by Morris Fishbein" is a popular medical guide written in the early 20th century. It focuses on practical care of skin and hair, explains scientific treatments and their limits, and cautions readers about cosmetic fads and beauty quackery, while also offering a handful of general health pointers.  The book opens by showing how modern medicine treats skin disease—with X-rays, radium, ultraviolet light, surgery, and drugs—while noting conditions that resist cure. It demystifies cosmetics (there is no “skin food”), advises electric needle as the only reliable method for removing superfluous hair, and details hazards from hair dyes and dyed furs, especially paraphenylene-diamine. It chronicles wartime advances in plastic surgery (grafts, tissue transfers, the use of ivory), warns against paraffin injections and “guaranteed” beauty operations, and urges choosing reputable surgeons. Practical sections cover moles and their danger signs, plant and contact rashes (including “lily rash”), frostbite care, boils and hygiene, and the stubborn nature of psoriasis. Brief chapters explain cauliflower and protruding ears and their correction, dismiss rubber “reducers” and medicated or anti-fat chewing gums as useless or risky, and close by advocating moderation in eating after middle life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76693,908,'Reading ease score: 47.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76693,681);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76693,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76694,520,'"Hidden seed :  or A year in a girl''s life" by Emma Leslie is a novel written in the late 19th century. A domestic, didactic coming‑of‑age tale, it follows earnest fifteen-year-old Mabel Randolph as her zeal to be “useful” collides with home duties, self-will, and the allure of status when she goes to live with her wealthier relatives and bonds with her gentle, fragile cousin Isabel. The story probes practical Christian service versus pride and worldliness, asking what true inner growth looks like for a young girl.  The opening of Hidden seed traces Mabel’s birthday resolve to be a missionary, her impatience with lessons, and her hasty plunge into parish work that leads to friction at home, including a humiliating outing in a shabby “district” dress and a quarrel with the nurse. Her mother reveals family financial strain just as an uncle invites Mabel to share Isabel’s first-rate schooling; after an ink accident ruins a new dress—forcing her into two brown ones—Mabel arrives at her uncle’s grand house, welcomed warmly by Isabel but coolly by her aunt and sister-cousin Julia. Kept largely to the school-room, Mabel struggles with pride and envy, while Isabel’s quiet kindness steadies her. A visit to an old villager, Mrs. Barker, reframes the parable of the sower as God’s life planted in every heart, warning that weeds of pride and worldliness can choke true growth—an idea that unsettles Mabel. Tensions sharpen around a musical party when Mabel is assigned a difficult sonata that wins little attention, feeding her resentment. Meanwhile, she secretly incurs debt for an evening dress and later uses her spring clothing money to pay it, leaving her in winter browns until her uncle discovers the truth and discreetly helps. The section closes with Mabel chastened but supported, and with hints of Isabel’s delicacy and her tender bond with her father. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76694,908,'Reading ease score: 74.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76694,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76694,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76694,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76695,520,'"Racconti di guerra :  (Maggio 1915 - Novembre 1916)" by Luigi Ambrosini is a collection of wartime reportage and sketches written in the early 20th century. Through first‑person dispatches from Italy’s Adriatic coast and the Alpine front, it portrays soldiers, volunteers, sailors, fishermen, and a frontline medical officer as they face mobilization and combat during World War I. The emphasis is on lived detail and character—marches, night watches, sea work, and field medicine—rather than strategy or heroics.  The opening of this volume follows the narrator along the Adriatic in Romagna and the Marche, where the peaceful countryside gives way to the vast movement of men, guns, and supply columns, and where political “reds” and “yellows” now march together as soldiers. He rides at night with a platoon of volunteer cyclists, shares their rough lodging and restless humor, and contrasts their impatience for action with the calm vigilance of a lone sailor at a coastal semaphore, including an episode where volunteers mistake sea phosphorescence for enemy lights. A second section shifts to Fano at dawn, depicting fishermen and their lateen‑rigged boats working under wartime restrictions, recalling an Austrian bombardment, setting nets under the eye of the paròn Guideo, trading stoic talk about loss and honor, and watching dolphins tear their catch as if “even the dolphins wage war.” The third section sketches a newly minted doctor turned medical officer: a steady, practical man who earns his men’s respect by riding alone through the night to find the unit’s route, then later serves in the trenches. It closes with his letter from an assault near a fort: moonlit wire‑cutting, flares, machine‑gun fire, and the grim, methodical labor of rescuing and treating the wounded under shell and shrapnel. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76695,908,'Reading ease score: 41.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76695,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76695,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76695,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76695,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76696,520,'"Little Eyebright and her pund o'' care" by Agnes Giberne is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Euphrasia “Little Eyebright” Mackenzie as family worries, fragile finances, and a testing friendship push her to weigh anxious self-will against Christian trust, with guidance from the wise Mrs. Landor and strain from her fretful mother.  The opening of Little Eyebright and her pund o'' care shows Mrs. Mackenzie fretting over health, servants, and money while Mrs. Landor urges her to seek Christ’s promised rest. Mr. Mackenzie, bank manager and ailing, returns home shaken and secretly confides to Euphrasia a looming calamity, perhaps financial, which she must not reveal. Though her conscience wavers, Euphrasia still visits her school friend Letitia in Clifton, where she is coolly received, then badly injures her knee in a fall and becomes an unwanted invalid in the Johnston household; only the doctor, Robert Wells, shows steady kindness. Isolated and letterless, she turns to a hymn on the wideness of God’s mercy and begins to rethink trust, while the scene shifts homeward to show that at least one family letter to her was never sent, explaining part of the silence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76696,908,'Reading ease score: 78.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76696,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76696,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76696,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76697,520,'"Historiallisia kuvauksia hätäajoilta ja vainovuosilta" by Petrus Nordmann is a collection of historical sketches written in the late 19th century. It portrays Finland’s ordeals during famine, war, and plague around the turn of the 18th century, focusing on everyday people rather than great leaders. The scenes follow townsfolk, clergy, soldiers, and sailors—such as the conscientious magistrate Jabel, the fisherman Kustaa Örn, the blunt chaplain Simo Starck, and his soldier-bound son Gideon Gabriel—as they struggle to endure and act with dignity amid scarcity and fear.  The opening of the collection frames the project with an old 1694 hymnbook whose owner’s marginal notes briefly trace a life of campaigns, plague, wounds, captivity, and return, setting a tone of humble witness to hard times. It then moves to Helsinki at the turn of 1695, where a wintry tavern gathering reveals hunger, civic strain, and rough humor as Jabel, raatimies Reimers, craftsmen, and a ruined former scholar quarrel over blame, charity, and survival. Next, in 1697, famine grips the city: Jabel keeps watch for a promised relief ship, desperate beggars plead in the streets, and a fisherman couple bringing fish is mobbed before the community rallies to tow a becalmed grain ship to shore and kneel in thanks. Finally, in Turku, a comic yet telling visit from chaplain Starck to a professor ends with the decision that Starck’s son Gideon will leave his faltering studies and join the cavalry, underscoring how war draws in even the reluctant and unprepared. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76697,908,'Reading ease score: 36.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76697,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76698,520,'"Valekuollut: 3-näytöksinen ilveily" by Martti Wuori is a theatrical farce written in the early 20th century. Set in contemporary Helsinki, it satirizes the literary scene, press sensationalism, and gentlemanly “honor” through a war between a sensitive writer, Eero Lehmus, and a preening critic, Väinö Turpainen, with fellow writers Ilmari Kalpa and Armi Kanerva in the fray. The play’s comic engine is a scheme to stage a death and watch how critics and newspapers react.  The opening of the play shows Eero, broke and humiliated by scathing reviews, sparring with his landlady while his friend Ilmari scrapes together money and Armi rails against lazy critics. When a newspaper stringer arrives as Turpainen’s emissary to press a “kunnianloukkaus” complaint, Eero pointedly refuses to engage. He then decides to disappear and be “valekuollut,” bidding theatrical farewells and slipping out of town. Act II shifts to Armi taking over Eero’s room as rumors spread: a hat and manuscript pages are found near a railway bridge, and Nestor Nokkonen eagerly amplifies the story. Ilmari, briefly fooled by a dramatic letter, learns from Armi that it’s a ruse; together they let the myth grow to expose Turpainen. The act culminates with Turpainen’s uneasy visit, where Armi coolly parries his overtures while the hoax gathers momentum. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76698,908,'Reading ease score: 53.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76698,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76698,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76699,520,'"The town down the river :  A book of poems by Edwin Arlington Robinson" is a collection of poetry written in the early 20th century. The book contemplates ambition, failure, memory, modern life, and moral character, often through portraits of individuals confronting time, loss, and the pressures of society.  The collection opens with a grave homage to Lincoln in The Master and a choric meditation on youth and fate in The Town Down the River, then ranges widely through dramatic monologues and character sketches. An Island voices Napoleon’s bitter exile; the Calverly’s sequence (Leffingwell, Clavering, Lingard) charts bohemian striving and collapse; and the miscellaneous poems move from urban spectacle (The White Lights) to intimate elegy (For a Dead Lady), satire and self-delusion (Miniver Cheevy, Doctor of Billiards), moral quandary (How Annandale Went Out), and parables of procrastination and hope (Vickery’s Mountain, Two Gardens in Linndale). Sea laments, love doubts, and tributes to the dead recur, balancing irony with compassion. The book closes with The Revealer, a public-spirited vision addressing leadership and national conscience, bookending the personal portraits with a civic appeal. Throughout, plainspoken music and keen psychology reveal lives poised between aspiration and resignation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76699,908,'Reading ease score: 77.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76699,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76699,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76700,520,'"Good Friday, and other poems" by John Masefield is a poetry collection written in the early 20th century. It centers on a dramatic retelling of the Passion through the voices of Pilate, his wife Procula, the centurion Longinus, a priestly envoy, a blind madman, Joseph of Ramah, and Herod, then broadens into sonnets meditating on beauty, the self, faith and doubt, nature, death, and war. The likely focus is the conflict between conscience and authority, and how suffering and beauty reveal deeper truth.  The opening of the collection stages the Pavement outside the Roman citadel in Jerusalem, where Pilate, swayed by Procula’s ominous dream and a priest’s charge that Jesus claims kingship, wavers but finally condemns him as the crowd clamors for crucifixion. A blind madman pleads for mercy, Pilate posts the inscription “King of the Jews,” and the soldiers lead Jesus away; darkness and an earthquake follow, Longinus returns shaken by the portents, Joseph of Ramah secures permission to bury the body, and Herod arrives to make a political peace with Pilate as the mob cheers. After this dramatic scene, the text shifts to sonnets that probe beauty, the inner self, mortality, possible afterlives, nature’s cycles, the ruptures of war, and recurring Good Friday imagery, before this excerpt closes with “The Madman’s Song,” a parable of a besieged city saved by the scorned wisdom of a madman. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76700,908,'Reading ease score: 84.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76700,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76700,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76700,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76701,520,'"Caravans to Santa Fe" by Alida Malkus is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. It evokes the Santa Fe Trail era, following spirited Santa Fe heiress Consuelo Lopez and adventure-seeking New Orleanian Steven Mercer as trade caravans knit together Mexican New Mexico and the American frontier. Expect frontier perils, commercial rivalries, and cross-cultural encounters, with figures like the suave Don Tiburcio and trader-leader Ceran St. Vrain shaping the journey.  The opening of the novel contrasts two worlds: a siesta-stilled Spanish Santa Fe where restless Consuelo longs for excitement, and bustling New Orleans where Steven is drawn to the river trade and overland commerce. In Santa Fe, Consuelo bristles at stifling courtship from cousin Manuel, thrills at the American caravans, and is captivated—despite herself—by the return of the aristocratic merchant Don Tiburcio, whose train arrives to great fanfare. Meanwhile in New Orleans, Steven is inspired by tales of the Trail, secures an introduction to St. Vrain, and accepts a secret dispatch from the deposed Mexican president Gómez Pedraza before running away to join a westbound caravan. Reaching Independence, he equips himself, joins St. Vrain’s column, endures storms and night guard, survives a deadly grapple with a scouting warrior, and witnesses a buffalo stampede and tense but bloodless contact with Plains Indians. The train pushes past Pawnee Rock, fights thirst and insects, fords rivers by moonlight, and makes desperate water runs as it turns onto the harsher Cimarron route. Early in the desert stretch they discover a besieged, muleless party—including a pale young woman and her brother—whom they fold into their own train and lead back toward water, rationing the last canteens as the noon heat bears down. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76701,908,'Reading ease score: 73.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76701,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76701,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76701,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76701,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76702,520,'"Letters to the young from the Old World :  Notes of travel" by Mrs. D. L. Miller is a collection of travel letters written in the late 19th century. Aimed at young readers, it recounts journeys across Europe and into the Bible Lands, blending vivid scenes of travel with gentle religious reflection and practical moral counsel. Expect ocean crossings, Scandinavian fjords, bustling markets, and sacred sites, all described in a warm, instructive voice.  The opening of the volume includes an editor’s introduction explaining that the author’s popular letters, first written from memory for a youth periodical, were revised and gathered into this book at readers’ request. Chapter I follows a transatlantic voyage on the steamer Aller: tiny staterooms, seasickness, deck life with well- and ill-behaved children, anxious fogs and ice-watch, the drama of taking on a pilot, and the thrill of lights on the European shore. Chapter II moves through Bremen to Denmark and Sweden—clean Copenhagen, ever-present coffee and hymn-singing, a humble farmhouse meal (milk dipping and shared bone spoons), Malmo’s markets, the fishermen of Limhamn, lake-studded forests, courteous children with graceful bows, and a mother carrying her baby in a sling—ending with a brisk account of railway dining. Chapter III records a coastal cruise in Norway on the Kong Halfdan: serene fjords, a captain’s scenic detour to waterfalls and echoes, Tromsø’s eider ducks, encounters with Lapps and reindeer, the pierced peak of Torghatten, a salmon “trap,” Hammerfest’s fishy industries, a polar bear cub from Spitzbergen, a stern temperance lesson after a sailor’s drunken mishap, an Arctic gale, and a safe return after grazing rocks. Chapter IV opens by sketching the early hardships of a poor German boy destined for study (clearly foreshadowing Martin Luther) before the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76702,908,'Reading ease score: 72.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76702,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76702,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76702,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76703,520,'"Sing-song :  A nursery rhyme book by Christina Georgina Rossetti" is a collection of children’s poetry written in the Victorian era. It gathers nursery rhymes and lullabies that celebrate early childhood and family life, with a focus on nature, seasons, animals, and simple moral lessons.  The book interweaves cradle songs, play songs, riddles, counting and calendar verses, and color and nature lists. Scenes of mothers, babies, and village life sit beside vivid sketches of flowers, birds, insects, and weather, while gentle counsel—kindness to creatures, patience in work, hope amid hardship—runs throughout. Imaginative pieces personify wind, moon, and stars; playful ones feature cats, dogs, lambs, and mice; and solemn notes touch on poverty, loss, and comfort (a dead thrush, a sleeping child, angels watching). Its brief, musical poems use clear images and refrains to soothe, delight, and quietly teach young listeners. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76703,908,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76703,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76703,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76703,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76704,520,'"Il Cantico :  romanzo" by Antonio Beltramelli is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Duccio della Bella, a proud, impoverished young man who, after his mother’s death, rejects social hypocrisy and seeks freedom with the guidance of the wanderer Omero. Set against Italy’s countryside and lagoon towns, it meditates on dignity, poverty, and the pull of love, hinting at a new attachment in the luminous figure of Serenella.  The opening of the novel shows Duccio keeping a fierce, solitary vigil at his mother’s deathbed, refusing neighbors’ false pity while only Omero offers quiet, genuine respect; at dawn, the mother dies. Soon after, Duccio rejects his demeaning clerkship, helps a peasant mother and daughter (Pavona) find legal aid for their imprisoned kin, and, after a bitter encounter with a hypocritical relative, resolves to cut ties with his past. With Omero’s help he sells everything, takes the road, and, exhausted but elated by liberty, reaches Comacchio, where an old fisherman friend, Giovanni della Nave, shelters them. The narrative then lingers on the lagoon world and introduces Giovanni’s daughter, Serenella—an ethereal, self-possessed presence—suggesting a brief pause in Duccio’s wandering and a new emotional current stirring within him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76704,908,'Reading ease score: 46.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76704,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76705,520,'"Kiusankappale :  Yksinäytöksinen ilveily by Martti Wuori is a one-act theatrical farce written in the early 20th century. Set in contemporary Helsinki, it playfully satirizes bachelorhood, office life, and the tug-of-war between vows and budding romance. The likely topic is a lighthearted workplace courtship that overturns a stubborn promise never to marry.  In an office shared by the reserved librarian Dr. Osmo Laipio and his lively assistant Maire Telkiä, old friend Roope Rahkasuo arrives to investigate Osmo’s recent odd behavior. The men once swore an anti-marriage vow, yet Roope suspects—and half fears—that Osmo has fallen for Maire. After comic eavesdropping, misunderstandings, and Roope’s meddling (mixed with his own momentary infatuation), Osmo’s nerves and Maire’s warmth bring matters to a head. During a mock-serious “collation” of a document, Osmo turns the task into a proposal; Maire accepts. Roope jokingly releases his friend from their vow, and the trio heads off to celebrate, the “nuisance” of temptation having blossomed into an engagement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76705,908,'Reading ease score: 60.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76705,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76705,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76705,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76706,520,'"The wonders of science : Or, young Humphry Davy (the Cornish apothecary''s boy,…." by Henry Mayhew is a juvenile biography written in the mid-19th century. It traces the early life, character, and self-education of Humphry Davy, presenting his path from poor Cornish boy to aspiring man of science as an example for young readers, blending moral purpose with lively popular science.  The opening of this work dedicates the story to Michael Faraday and quotes Faraday’s own account of how Davy first encouraged him, then explains the author’s aim: to inspire boys through a largely faithful, readable life of Davy while avoiding outdated science. The narrative begins with Davy’s father’s debts, Mr. Tonkin’s stern stewardship, and a vivid Penzance scene that contrasts local hardship with rising fashions; it then follows Humphry to the Land’s End, where, in grief, he vows to reform and support his widowed mother and siblings. At home he renews that promise, while his mother recalls his precocity; soon she opens a millinery business, Tonkin urges a practical path, and a sunset walk to St. Michael’s Mount becomes a gentle lesson in natural history, physiology, and humane feeling that awakens Humphry’s intellectual hunger. Apprenticed to a local surgeon-apothecary, he resolves to be useful, and a report of a catastrophic coal-mine explosion—highlighting that firedamp ignites by flame but not by sparks—plants an early seed of the ideas that will shape his future. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76706,908,'Reading ease score: 49.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76706,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76706,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76707,520,'"Ancient Rhetoric and Poetic: Interpreted from Representative Works" by Charles Sears Baldwin is a scholarly treatise written in the early 20th century. It surveys classical theories of rhetoric and poetics through representative authors to recover practical principles of composition for modern readers. The work argues for a twofold view of composition—rhetoric as public, logical persuasion and poetic as imaginative movement—while tracing how ancient practice informs medieval pedagogy and Renaissance criticism.  The opening of the book sets out the author’s purpose and method in a preface: to let figures like Aristotle, Cicero, Quintilian, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, and the author of “On the Sublime” speak for themselves, with a strict focus on composition and a deliberate exclusion of metrics. Chapter I distinguishes rhetoric from poetic not by verse versus prose, but by the kind of movement—idea-to-idea for rhetoric versus image-to-image for poetic—while acknowledging shared stylistic resources and emphasizing the pedagogical value of the distinction. Chapter II then begins a sustained reading of Aristotle’s Rhetoric: Book I defines rhetoric as discerning the available means of persuasion (with the enthymeme as its chief instrument) and maps deliberative, forensic, and occasional speech with their core topics. Book II shifts to the audience, analyzing emotions and character types to guide ethical adaptation. Book III turns to the speech itself—diction, rhythm, the periodic sentence, delivery, and the traditional parts—arguing that prose should be rhythmical but not metrical, and that vivid metaphor, energetic presentation, and apt arrangement make ideas act “before the eyes.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76707,908,'Reading ease score: 51.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76707,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76707,698);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76707,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76708,520,'"Raquel of the ranch country" by Alida Malkus is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Raquel Daniels, a capable Texas ranch girl sent to a fashionable Hudson River boarding school, where she collides with class snobbery yet finds a true friend in Anne Marvin. As the Great War intrudes, Raquel is called home to manage the Lazy L ranch, shifting from social unease to frontier responsibility. The tale promises an East–West contrast and a coming-of-age story about grit, loyalty, and leadership.  The opening of the novel finds Raquel arriving at The Towers, where she is coolly rebuffed by the glamorous Lois Wainwright but rescued by the independent Anne, who becomes her roommate and ally. Raquel struggles with manners and cliques, is slighted over a Red Cross fair, yet shows her poise and skill on horseback and enjoys a transformative Thanksgiving with Anne’s family. A telegram ends her school stay: her father enlists in wartime animal transport and summons her to run the ranch, while Lois leaves to accompany her ill father west. Home again, Raquel is warmly welcomed and hears her father’s sober briefing—ship a thousand head, meet pressing bank notes, avoid dubious commission men, and beware rival cattleman A. B. Meyers. After he departs, she starts taking charge, correcting a reckless hand, finding supplies run down, and facing early signs of missing calves that may mean rustling. The section closes with her bracing for these first tests to keep the Lazy L solvent through a hard season. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76708,908,'Reading ease score: 78.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76708,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76708,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76708,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76709,520,'"Yleiskatsaus äänioikeusasiaan Suomessa by Santeri Ivalo" is a political pamphlet written in the late 19th century. The book examines the suffrage question in Finland, arguing that existing voting arrangements are unjust and outdated, and calls for broader, fairer participation in public life.  The author opens with Finland’s rapid 19th‑century progress and the ensuing “backlash,” then surveys, in turn, rural municipal elections, rural elections to the peasants’ estate, urban municipal elections, urban elections to the burghers’ estate, and church elections. He shows how property-based and weighted voting (with multiple votes tied to tax payments) lets a small, wealthy minority overrule majorities, how indirect elections dampen civic engagement, and how high tax thresholds exclude many workers entirely. He demands immediate, practical reforms within the four-estate system: extend the franchise in the countryside to all tax‑paying, reputable residents; abolish indirect elections; set a clear, low suffrage threshold; and replace all vote-scaling with equal voting—“one man, one vote.” He identifies reform of the burghers’ estate as pivotal for broader change, supports curbing wealth-based dominance in church elections, and reinforces his case with stark numerical examples showing how little of the nation truly holds power. He concludes that equal suffrage is both a question of justice and a national necessity to strengthen unity and self-government. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76709,908,'Reading ease score: 16.2 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76709,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76709,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76709,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76709,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76710,520,'"Ellice Quentin, and other stories" by Julian Hawthorne is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The volume blends psychological romance, social satire, and moral crisis, opening with a passionate love story that collides with ambition and fate, and shifting to continental settings for intrigue and adventure. Its characters—most notably the mercurial Ellice Quentin and the steadfast barrister Geoffrey Herne—face choices where love, pride, and worldly allure pull in opposite directions.  The opening of the book begins with a preface championing brevity in fiction, then launches into Ellice Quentin: Geoffrey and Ellice fall intensely in love, but she abandons their engagement to secure an inheritance through marriage to another man, only to return years later torn between worldly glitter and the deeper claim of love. A charged reunion at a garden party leads to Geoffrey’s uncompromising ultimatum; two years on, she reappears saying she has left her husband, but Geoffrey reveals he is engaged to Gertrude. Ellice insists on meeting the new fiancée, pours three glasses of wine, and, having contrived a fatal choice for herself alone, dies moments after toasting them, leaving Geoffrey stricken and Gertrude stunned. The next tale, The Countess’s Ruby, opens on a Norman seaside: an English artist-narrator and his ardent American poet friend trade banter amid beach theatrics, a striking “pagan” beauty in a canoe, and a comic mishap with a missing peignoir, before a fog rolls in and the swimmer-poet vanishes into the haze, hinting at peril and further intrigue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76710,908,'Reading ease score: 69.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76710,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76710,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76710,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76711,520,'"Kaspar Hauser : Beispiel eines Verbrechens am Seelenleben des Menschen" by Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach is a legal-psychological case study written in the early 19th century. It investigates the sensational appearance of the foundling Kaspar Hauser in Nuremberg, recording his condition, behaviors, and the documents and objects found with him. Through careful observation and legal reasoning, it contends that beyond unlawful imprisonment and exposure, a profound offense was committed against a human mind.  The opening of the work recounts Hauser’s sudden arrival in Nuremberg: a staggering youth in peasant dress who could barely walk, repeated set phrases, refused meat and beer, ate only bread and water, and yet wrote his name clearly. Taken to the police tower, he is inventoried (ill-fitting clothes, devotional tracts, a rosary) and found with letters addressed to a cavalry officer and notes hinting at his supposed birth and soldier father; medical observations describe soft, blistered feet, unusual knees, and extreme sensitivity. His behavior is strikingly childlike—few words (calling people “boys” and all animals “horses”), terror of black animals, fascination with toy horses, astonishment at mirrors and music, and no grasp of religion—while the jailer Hiltel and visitors attest to his innocence and rapid, effortful learning. As crowds gather, Professor Daumer begins to teach him and the mayor Binder pieces together an initial narrative: lifelong confinement in a small dark room, fed bread and water (sometimes drugged), nails trimmed in sleep, a hidden keeper who guided his hand to write and later forced him to stand and walk, then carried him out and abandoned him in the city. Feuerbach frames this as aggravated unlawful imprisonment and life-endangering exposure, proposing a broader “crime against the soul.” The author’s first visit adds vivid details: hypersensitive eyes, facial tics under mental strain, third‑person self-reference, a strong preference for red, and a fierce, touching eagerness to learn and draw. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76711,908,'Reading ease score: 58.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76711,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76711,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76711,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76711,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76711,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76712,520,'"Gleanings in Europe :  Italy, vol. 1 of 2" by James Fenimore Cooper is a travelogue written in the early 19th century. It presents an American traveler’s lettered impressions of Italy’s cities, roads, art, inns, and society, mixing scenes on the way with historical reflection and sharp, often humorous, observation. The narrative moves from market squares and river crossings to galleries, salons, and a ducal court, shaping a vivid portrait of Italy’s landscapes and manners as seen by a curious, independent-minded visitor.  The opening of the work follows the narrator from Milan across the Lombard plain to Lodi (with a quack tooth-puller and heaps of frog legs), offering a skeptical retelling of the battle at the Adda before crossing the Po to Piacenza and through the duchy of Parma, Modena, and Bologna. He notes Austrian garrisons and decayed brick walls, learns to bargain at inns, inspects Castle Guelfo, admires Parma’s Correggio and the separate campanile and baptistery, remarks on Modena’s polished composition floors, and strolls Bologna’s snow-proof arcades and leaning towers. A mountain crossing brings a comic scare about banditti (a “suspect” peasant proves to be summoning oxen), a courier’s trick that costs him rooms, a solitary inn with honest hosts, and finally Florence—with its marbled cathedral square and oversized mosquitoes. Settling in a Florentine palazzo-fortress, he describes cheap grand lodgings, noble families selling wine by the flask, the gentle, indolent Tuscan temperament, and moving encounters with antique masterpieces in the tribune, then surveys a cosmopolitan winter scene: diplomats, English amateur theatricals (and a coarse caricature of Americans), Prince Borghese’s receptions, and a starry opera audience. A coastal excursion takes him through Lucca and Pisa (arguing the leaning tower was designed to lean), the Campo Santo and tiny Moorish-gothic Spina chapel, and to Leghorn’s port where he relishes the sea air, hears praise of the American ship Delaware, visits the Protestant cemetery (Smollett and a fallen U.S. officer), and warns invalids off Italy’s winter climate. He then recounts a formal audience at the Pitti—details of dress, etiquette, Habsburg-Lorraine succession, and a frank exchange with the Grand Duke about America—closing with political reflections on monarchy and aristocracy. The section ends amid carnival gaiety at a masked ball, with white dominos, a Polish dance, towering English guardsmen, and musings on how easy travel blends nations and spreads opinions. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76712,908,'Reading ease score: 58.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76712,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76712,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76713,520,'"Blue eyes and diamonds by Lemuel De Bra" is a short crime caper written in the late 1920s. It centers on a society wife''s risky scheme to fake a jewel robbery to cover her gambling losses, entangling a straight-arrow detective and her well-meaning husband in a clever, lighthearted twist on theft and trust.  Betty Danford, having pawned her diamond wedding necklace and replaced it with paste, begs Detective Harry Milholland—an old suitor—to arrange a staged burglary to “steal” the fake and keep her secret. Her plan unravels when her husband, Chester, reveals he has quietly redeemed the real necklace and hidden it back in her dressing table. Panicked, Betty rushes to stop the planned theft, only to witness what looks like a thief flinging the necklace into the river. The sting is then revealed: Harry had told Chester, they orchestrated a fake confrontation, and the tossed necklace was only the paste copy. With the truth out and the real diamonds safe, Betty faces a gentle moral reckoning, reconciles with her husband, and the tale ends on a playful, affectionate note. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76713,908,'Reading ease score: 85.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76713,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76713,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76713,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76714,520,'"The Little Review, July 1917 (Vol. 4, No. 3) by Margaret C. Anderson" is a modernist arts magazine issue compiled in the early 20th century. It showcases avant-garde poetry, fiction, and polemic, with editorial notices and reader correspondence framing a spirited debate about art, society, and the war. The likely topic is a bold presentation of experimental literature and cultural criticism that rejects conventional taste.  The issue opens with Wyndham Lewis’s Imaginary Letters, a spiky “Code of a Herdsman” that exalts individuality over the “herd,” urging multiple selves, a personal vocabulary, and ruthless honesty. T. S. Eliot contributes four poems—satirizing reactionary journalism, skipping through cosmopolitan personae, setting a squalid honeymoon against Byzantine splendor, and skewering ecclesiastical complacency in “The Hippopotamus.” Ezra Pound’s “Aux Etuves de Wiesbaden” stages a 15th‑century bathhouse dialogue on cleanliness, Christianity, Spartan customs, beauty, and the dangers of dogma. John Rodker’s “Three Nightpieces” render panic, marital dread, and nightmare in clipped, hallucinatory scenes. Louis Gilmore’s “Improvisations” offer imagist miniatures on the mind and the seasons; Maxwell Bodenheim’s “Poet’s Heart” is a symbolic drama of seekers (a shepherd, peddler, nun, and wine‑jar maiden) who are gathered by a Poet into his inner garden; and Emanuel Morgan’s “Opus 96” is a brief hymn to perpetual beauty. “The Reader Critic” section bristles with attacks and defenses—on taste, modernism, and the war—quoting Barbusse on the horror of combat, noting the Goldman‑Berkman prosecutions, and asserting the magazine’s uncompromising stance, while announcements trail forthcoming work by Yeats and Joyce alongside the usual advertisements and subscription appeals. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76714,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Little_Review',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76714,908,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76714,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76714,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76714,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76715,520,'"La signora Inger di Östrot" by Henrik Ibsen is a play written in the mid-19th century. Set in 16th-century Norway, it is a historical drama of political intrigue and moral reckoning, centered on Lady Inger, her daughter Elina, the Danish courtier Nils Lykke, and the exiled noble Olaf Skaktavl as rebellion brews and a rumored Sture heir unsettles the region. The work explores how private guilt and ambition collide with national hopes, with a powerful matriarch forced to choose between prudence and revolt.  The opening of the play shows Östrot at night during a storm: servants gossip about Norway’s decline and a black-clad presence haunting the manor, while peasants demand arms to join the Dalecarlian rising. Lady Inger first yields, then abruptly halts their departure after a secret letter warns of a visitor, sparking a fierce clash with Elina over past compromises, a sister sacrificed to a political marriage, and another ruined by a seducer. The ragged stranger proves to be Olaf Skaktavl, who presses for action as a Danish envoy, Nils Lykke, arrives with smooth promises and a hidden plan to ensnare the Sture pretender; Inger parries him, even staging a mock “poisoned cup” test to expose both Danish and compatriot mistrust. Act III opens with Elina’s proud defiance as Lykke tries to charm and justify himself, turning their midnight encounter into a tense duel of hatred, persuasion, and unsettled feeling. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76715,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lady_Inger',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76715,908,'Reading ease score: 60.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76715,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76715,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76716,520,'The Palace of Fantasy; or, The Bard’s Imagery; with Other Poems by J. S. Hardy is a collection of poetry written in the mid-19th century. It centers on an extended allegorical tour in which personified Fantasy appoints a Bard to guide a crowd through a visionary palace and across the realms of Nature, Art, Learning, and Science. The aim is to delight and morally elevate the careworn, turning everyday drudgery toward wonder, knowledge, and a nobler destiny.  The opening of the work frames the design: Fantasy’s herald summons a weary populace to a hidden palace, where a page attires them and a saloon of living tapestries sets the tone for a grand imaginative voyage. Dan Fantasy addresses the crowd with compassion and assigns the Bard to lead them first through subterranean caverns and grottoes to marvels of the earth, then out to vast prospects. The path forks into four domains; beginning with Nature, the Bard swiftly paints Alpine heights, polar ice, torrents and ocean storms, basalt caves, island lakes, and deep forests, mixing awe with moral reflection and a hope of future peace. Turning to Art, the tour surveys ancient wonders and ruins, then a gallery of masters, music, and sculpture, and glimpses of Milton, Newton, and Shakespeare, before celebrating modern invention from steam power to the printing press. In Learning, the company wanders academies and libraries among the great names of philosophy and letters. In Science, they ascend a night-tower to read the heavens—moon, planets, comets, and the milky way—and the Bard closes this opening movement with reflections on cosmic order and the earth’s harmonious course. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76716,908,'Reading ease score: 55.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76716,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76716,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76717,520,'"The history of fashion in France :  or, the dress of women from the Gallo-Roman…." by Augustin Challamel is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It charts the evolution of French women’s dress from ancient Gaul through the Middle Ages to the author’s present, treating clothing as a social and moral barometer. The work highlights Paris’s leadership in style and the roles of actresses, fashion journals, and even dressed dolls in spreading trends, and it promises a period-by-period survey from the Gallo-Roman era onward.  The opening of the volume presents fashion as a serious lens on society, quoting poets, praising Frenchwomen’s taste, and placing Paris at the center of global style. It illustrates celebrity influence with Mlle. Mars’s famous yellow gown, sketches the rise of fashion media from Amman’s Gynæceum to Lamésangère’s Journal des Dames et des Modes, mentions dolls used to export styles, and lays out a plan to cover each era. The first chapters then describe Gallic and Gallo-Roman attire—woad-stained skin yielding to tunics, veils (mavors and palla), Roman stolae, perfumes and cosmetics, jewelry, specialized footwear, fans, and cooling amber or crystal balls—before moving to Merovingian and early Carlovingian fashions shaped by Frankish rule: skins and camlets, coifs and veils (including the obbou), jeweled belts, braided hair, and modesty enforced by custom and church. They profile royal women and manuscript images to detail belts, veils, colors, and cleanliness (including baths), and then trace the shift to distinctly French medieval styles: dominical veils, bliauds and garde-corps, afiche clasps and serpent-trains, surcoats and hoods, emblazoned gowns, and a growing variety of fabrics. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76717,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76717,676);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76717,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76718,520,'"Russian essays and stories" by Maurice Baring is a collection of essays and short stories written in the early 20th century. It offers a wide-ranging portrait of Russian life—travel sketches, cultural criticism, stage and literature notes, and reportage—rounded off with short fiction drawn from the same milieu. The emphasis is on impartial, first-hand observation of ordinary people—peasants, workers, soldiers, officials, and merchants—encountered across trains, rivers, fairs, and provincial towns.  The opening of the collection frames a pledge of non-polemical truth-telling in a witty dedication and preface, then launches into vivid travel pieces. First come third-class railway journeys north and west of Moscow: cramped night rides, sharp dialogue about the Duma and mutinies, a comic quarrel with a guard, Kronstadt dockers trading English phrases, a near-theft at Vologda station, and recruits and a feldsher debating war and reform. Next, the Volga voyage unfolds: Yaroslavl’s twilight streets, the teeming Nijni-Novgorod Fair and its Liberal press, family debates over a borrowed novel, and the river’s grandeur down past Kazan, Samara, Saratov, and Tzaritsyn to Astrakhan—punctuated by generous third-class cabins, Cossack banter, a would‑be opera singer, folk hauling songs, and the night scent of new-mown hay. Returning inland, station halls brim with sleepers and sunflower seeds, and a guarded cashier hints at unrest. The sketches then shift south to contrast Central and Little Russia, a blind hurdy-gurdy player, and a train debate where a soldier’s blunt theism clashes with a monk—leading to reflections on the peasants’ practical mysticism capped by two stark anecdotes. A talk with a moderate landowner probes “culture” and weighs Turgenev’s artistry against the tougher realities of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, and the final pages begin the ceremony of casting a village bell. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76718,908,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76718,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76718,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76718,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76718,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76719,520,'"The new art of writing plays by Lope de Vega" is a dramaturgical treatise in verse from the Spanish Golden Age, likely the early 17th century. It outlines how to craft stage plays that satisfy audience taste while engaging with classical theory, blending practical stagecraft with a poet’s reflections on comedy and tragedy.  The book opens with a contextual introduction that sets the author alongside the great innovators of popular theater and frames his core paradox: he knows the classical rules yet openly breaks them to please the paying crowd. The central poem addresses an academy, briefly surveys the origins of comedy and tragedy, and then offers concise, practice-first guidance: choose a single, coherent action; build plays in three acts; compress time where possible; keep the stage seldom empty; delay the resolution until the final moments; and mix tragic and comic tones for variety. It advises writing the plan in prose before versifying, matching speech to character and situation, and using distinct verse forms for different purposes (for lament, narration, high matters, or love). It favors themes of honor and virtue, warns against impossibilities and open satire, prescribes moderate length, and urges decorum and plausible costume. The author closes by acknowledging his own vast, rule-breaking output and defending it on the grounds that playwrights must live by pleasing the public. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76719,908,'Reading ease score: 47.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76719,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76719,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76719,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76720,520,'Ilotyttö :  Tarina laitakaupungilta by Larin-Kyösti is a naturalist urban novella written in the early 20th century. It follows a young working-class woman on the city’s margins and explores the pull of poverty, desire, and social hypocrisy, especially how respectable men exploit vulnerable women while society punishes the victims.  The story centers on Miili, a country-bred maid unjustly dismissed after her employer’s advance is discovered. On the street she meets her old friend Mirtsa, now a prostitute, and is drawn to a brothel by the sea. There, the young student Lenni flirts with her, and a violent scene erupts when his father appears as a customer; father and son recognize one another, shattering their family bond. In the darkness that follows, Miili is seized by an unknown man who, when light reveals his face, proves to be her brother Toivo—both recoil in horror; he smashes the mirror and flees as the police raid the house. At dawn, summoned for registration, Miili trudges through fresh snow toward the city, seeing the black trail of her footprints as a stark emblem of a fate that society has marked out for her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76720,908,'Reading ease score: 45.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76720,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76721,520,'"Jokamies: Vanha näytelmä rikkaan miehen kuolemasta" by Hugo von Hofmannsthal is a morality play written in the early 20th century. It reimagines the medieval Everyman story: a prosperous man is summoned by Death to render an account of his life before God. The drama follows the wealthy Jokamies as he searches for companionship and help on his last journey, finding that worldly ties fail while spiritual virtues may endure. Expect allegorical figures and a sober meditation on wealth, repentance, and salvation.  The opening of the play sets a sacred frame: God laments human forgetfulness and sends Death to summon a rich man to judgment. Jokamies boasts of his wealth, spurns a needy neighbor, and coldly defends usury; his mother urges him toward repentance and marriage, but he turns instead to revels with his beloved and friends. In the midst of a feast he hears ominous calls; Death appears and commands him to come at once, granting only a brief chance to find a companion. His closest friend and two cousins refuse to go; his servants flee; even Mammon rises from his treasure chest to mock him and deny aid. At last a frail figure—Good Deeds—answers his call, revealing herself weakened by his neglect yet willing to help if she can. The excerpt closes with her urging him toward true contrition as his reckoning nears. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76721,908,'Reading ease score: 64.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76721,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76721,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76722,520,'"North" by James B. Hendryx is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in the Yukon during the first fever of the Klondike discoveries, it follows the legendary sourdough Burr MacShane, whose skill, generosity, and restless urge for new country shape a vivid portrait of frontier life. Around him gather miners, gamblers, and dance-hall girls in early Dawson, where hard work, risk, and rough fellowship define the camp. The story blends gold-rush stakes with frontier ethics as MacShane turns from certain riches toward the unknown “north.”  The opening of the novel plunges into Dawson’s first winter after Bonanza and Gold Bottom, where men “burn in” frozen ground, then drift to town for Christmas. MacShane proves his claim’s richness with a pan worth over a hundred dollars, organizes a joyous, improvised children’s Christmas at the Golden North Saloon, and watches Horse Face Joe play an inspired night that ends in a fatal binge. Old Man Gordon—pious, stubborn, and poor—loses at cribbage, tries to wager his claim, and is refused; later, MacShane quietly returns the gold he won by salting Gordon’s shaft for the sake of Gordon’s wife and daughter. When Gordon washes a spectacular pan the next day and a stampede brews, Camillo Bill reveals the truth, averts chaos, and forms a working partnership on MacShane’s claims—just as MacShane slips out of Dawson, following his hunch farther into the dark, frigid North. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76722,908,'Reading ease score: 82.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76722,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76722,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76722,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76722,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76723,520,'"Pelle Erobreren 2: Læreaar" by Martin Andersen Nexø is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows the country boy Pelle as he leaves the farm for a provincial town, becomes a shoemaker’s apprentice, and wrestles with hardship, humiliation, and hope in a world of masters, journeymen, and city crowds. Themes of migration, class, and coming‑of‑age thread through his encounters with fellow workers, his ailing but spirited master, and the pull of his bond with his father.  At the start of the novel, Pelle trudges toward town on a spring day and, by chance, is carried along by old Klavs Herman to shoemaker Jeppe Kofod’s shop, where he is promptly bound to an apprenticeship and subjected to a cruel initiation with hot pitch and pranks. Overwhelmed by the city’s bustle and his new status, he briefly runs away by night to the Stengaard farm, searching for his father Lasse, only to learn from Karna that Lasse has left to look for a smallholding; he returns to town at dawn. The opening then follows his errands with the journeyman Nikas, glimpses of street life—the ranting clockmaker, funeral talk with the charitable tailor Bjerregrav—and his failed first attempts to win over the town boys, who mock him as a “bonde.” Through it all, he begins to form a quiet bond with the kind but sickly Unge Mester Andrés, and resolves to adapt and push forward despite the pain and loneliness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76723,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelle_the_Conqueror_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76723,908,'Reading ease score: 87.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76723,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76723,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76724,520,'"La chasse au météore" by Jules Verne is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a small American town, it blends light social comedy with scientific intrigue as a dazzling meteor sparks rivalry between two amateur astronomers while love stories unfold around them. The key figures include Judge John Proth, the impetuous travelers Seth Stanfort and Arcadia Walker, and the Whaston families of Dean Forsyth and Dr. Sydney Hudelson, whose friendly competition threatens to flare into a feud. Expect a tale where celestial discovery collides with civic curiosity, romance, and pride.  The opening of the story first stages a brisk, humorous scene in Whaston, Virginia: the punctual Seth Stanfort waits on horseback in Constitution Square, greets the equally spirited Arcadia Walker at the last minute, and—helped by the unflappable Judge John Proth—marries her on the spot without dismounting. It then shifts to the household of Dean Forsyth, an irritable but passionate stargazer aided by his small aide Omicron and his plain‑spoken servant Mitz; Forsyth and Omicron claim to have glimpsed a fast north–south bolide days earlier, but clouds and bad luck thwart confirmation. A parallel portrait introduces Dr. Sydney Hudelson—Forsyth’s friend and rival—his serene wife Flora, their daughters Jenny and lively Loo, and Jenny’s fiancé, the lawyer Francis Gordon; despite the men’s simmering rivalry, the families fix the wedding date and the young couple choose a house with a terrace view over Whaston. Both Forsyth and Hudelson rush to secure priority by writing observatories in Pittsburg and Cincinnati, but for now they receive only acknowledgments, keep scanning the sky, and grow more anxious as everyday wedding preparations advance and the meteor refuses to reappear. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76724,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chase_of_the_Golden_Meteor https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Chasse_au_m%C3%A9t%C3%A9ore',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76724,908,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76724,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76724,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76724,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76725,520,'"Hungarian grammar" by Charles Arthur Ginever and Ilona De Györy Ginever is a language textbook written in the early 20th century. It presents a practical, streamlined introduction to Hungarian aimed at learners, emphasizing pronunciation, vowel harmony, suffix-based grammar, and clear usage rules, with exercises, vocabularies, and everyday phrases.  The opening of this grammar explains its aim to dispel the idea that Hungarian is hard, then lays out the alphabet, sounds, and vowel harmony (flat, sharp, mediate), compound consonants, and fixed stress. It introduces articles (a/az, and the sparing use of egy), basic noun number formation (including special plural patterns and contractions), and four core cases expressed by suffixes, with possession handled via personal endings and the “van” construction instead of “to have.” It then details personal possessive suffixes, and the language’s extensive place-and-direction system through suffixes and postpositions (with pronominal forms), followed by adjectives (attributive vs. predicative, comparison with -bb and leg-), numerals, and telling time. The verb section begins with the central contrast between definite and indefinite conjugations tied to object definiteness, outlines iktelen and ikes patterns with key tenses, notes the absence of a passive, and highlights features like -lak/-lek when “I” acts on “you,” all reinforced by brief exercises and word lists. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76725,908,'Reading ease score: 70.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76725,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76725,704);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58575,'hu.wikipedia','https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gy%C5%91ry_Ilona');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76726,520,'"Magyar könyv : Egy csapat elbeszélés" by Ernő Szép is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. In lyrical, image-rich prose it portrays Hungarian village and small-town life, where everyday routines, petty cruelties, and sudden tenderness mingle. The likely focus is intimate character portraits—an imperious elderly matron, her stoic factotum, and unruly boys—set against the rhythms and losses of a rural world.  The opening of the collection follows Karacsné nagyasszony, an eighty-year-old fixture on her porch, and her servant Iszpász Sámuel, amid painstakingly rendered scenes of evening milking: seven cows with distinct names, neighbors’ servants queuing for warm milk, and the perpetual sweeping beneath a great mulberry tree. A street urchin, Három Pista, raids the tree, prompting Karacsné’s fury and Iszpász’s hapless threats with a pitchfork. When a sudden foot-and-mouth outbreak kills all seven cows, the tone softens: another boy, Császi, returns to the tree and Karacsné, subdued by loss, permits him—and soon a troop of children—to eat the fallen fruit. The section closes with a brief, rhapsodic meditation on childhood’s sharp sweetness, echoing the eper’s taste and the fleeting mercy that tempers the old woman’s hardness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76726,908,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76726,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76727,520,'"The Movie Boys in the Jungle: or, Lively Times Among the Wild Beasts" by Victor Appleton is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows moving-picture operators Joe Duncan and Blake Stewart as they head to Africa to rescue Joe’s sister Jessie from a troubled mission station while filming wild animals in their native habitats. Alongside Joe’s father and the gloom-prone comedian C. C. Piper, they balance a rescue mission with a daring contract to capture authentic jungle footage. Expect travel, peril, and resourceful camerawork amid wild beasts and wary tribes.  The opening of the story shows Joe and Blake finishing lighthouse scenes on the California coast before learning that Joe’s sister, first thought to be in China, has instead gone to a remote station in Africa. En route east with their theatrical company, their train sideswipes a circus train; the boys film the chaos (including a briefly freed lion), impressing circus manager Harry Stone, who hires them to obtain true jungle animal pictures. They sail via Naples and Suez—where grim news reports say Jessie’s mission has been raided and the missionaries carried into the interior—yet press on with Mr. Duncan and a newly revealed shipmate, C. C. Piper. Reaching Mombasa, they take the Uganda Railway toward Victoria Nyanza, film buffalo and a rhino near the line, hire veteran guide Sergeant Hotchkiss, assemble a safari with native porters led by “Happy One,” and prepare to cross the lake to Entebbe to begin the search in earnest. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76727,908,'Reading ease score: 81.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76727,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76727,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76727,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76727,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76728,520,'Helen Vardon’s Confession by R. Austin Freeman is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on Helen Vardon, a solicitor’s daughter, whose father’s misapplied trust funds lead to blackmail and a coerced marriage proposal. The narrative promises a blend of domestic tragedy, romance, and crime as Helen’s sacrifice draws her into deeper peril.  The opening of the novel presents Helen deciding to set down her story after glimpsing a first white hair, a small shock that recalls past terrors. She overhears a devastating conversation: her father has improperly used trust money, faces possible imprisonment, and a powerful acquaintance, Lewis Otway, offers to cover the loss if she will marry him. Fearing her father may take a desperate way out, Helen secretly meets Otway, signs a written promise to marry under strict conditions, and obtains his letter that temporarily removes the threat, which she delivers unseen to calm her father. Over the next days she hides her plan, writes a brief farewell-explanation, and arranges a clandestine ceremony. At the mission church, numb and detached, she stands with Otway as the hurried, hushed marriage service begins, her vows spoken as a grim act of rescue rather than love. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76728,908,'Reading ease score: 70.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76728,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76728,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76729,520,'"Palvelusväkeä :  Yksinäytöksinen huvinäytelmä by Roderich Benedix" is a one-act comedic play, most akin to a light social farce, likely written in the late 19th century. Set entirely in a manor house kitchen, it explores the lives of servants—flirtations, jealousy, gossip, and superstition—leading to a sudden stroke of luck that reshapes their futures.  In the kitchen bustle, maid Hanna and stablehand Pekka are engaged, but the bookkeeper Aukusti flirts with Hanna, provoking the spiteful jealousy of the lady’s maid Anna. Slander travels upstairs: Pekka is summarily dismissed (under the pretext of a lame horse), and Hanna is fired for supposed impropriety. Ristiina the cook, guided by a vivid dream, splits a raffle ticket with Hanna; soon Reetta brings news that their ticket has won a major prize. Fortune reverses the injustice: Pekka and Hanna can now marry and start a life of their own, while the steady coachman Juronen—long prudent and patient—proposes to Ristiina, and they plan to open a well-run eatery. Amid banter and quick turns, camaraderie and chance triumph over malice and class-bound pettiness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76729,908,'Reading ease score: 52.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76729,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76729,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76729,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76730,520,'"Terveeks'' — Buddha!" by Sulo-Weikko Pekkola is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. It follows a Finnish traveler moving from the Middle East into British India and across Southeast Asia toward Australia, blending shipboard episodes, rail journeys, and street-level sketches of colonial cities. Told in an anecdotal, often humorous and sometimes sharply opinionated voice, it focuses on everyday encounters, language barriers, and the social hierarchies of empire.  The opening of the narrative finds the author abandoning an overland entry to India in favor of a British India Steam Navigation ship from Basra, sharing a cabin with Hindu officers, watching deck passengers cook amid monsoon swells, and arriving via Karachi to Bombay. First impressions emphasize how European parts of Indian port cities appear, contrasted with crowded stations, third-class train travel, improvised smoking customs, and a grim episode of suspected sabotage leading to a wreck. He comments on language gaps despite imperial English, offers blunt (often biased) notes on local habits like crouching by the tracks and the status of sacred animals, and describes a hawk taking a street chicken. Reaching Singapore, he depicts a cosmopolitan, Chinese-dominated port with fine roads, open drains, foul river, trolley-like buses, and visits to rubber estates and the botanic garden; he relies on a newspaper editor rather than a consul for access. Street vignettes include anti-English sentiment, getting lost, gold-teeth smiles, noisy lodgings with piano and violin, bath tubs as water boxes, a nearby mosque and guarded harem, and an episode with a neighbor’s wheezing accordion. The section closes with visa bureaucracy for Australia resolved by an English officer upstairs and the sight of a lively, music-led Chinese funeral procession. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76730,908,'Reading ease score: 32.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76730,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76731,520,'"Sibylla :  or, The revival of prophecy by C. A. Mace" is a speculative essay written in the early 20th century. It proposes that “prophecy” can be revived as disciplined scientific forecasting, arguing that modern science and psychology will increasingly predict—and deliberately shape—the future of society, industry, education, politics, and even human nature.  Mace surveys recent “prophetic” thinking, contrasts gadget-focused futurism with biologically minded forecasts, and then sketches a coming revolution: the scientific management of mind and behavior. Using examples from industrial psychology, he shows how incentives, environment, and subtle social levers can steer work, policy, and public opinion, predicting propaganda refined into a precise art, humor as a political weapon, and war fought mainly by psychological means. He foresees education reorganized around natural rhythms and lifelong study, a tight weave of factory–school–clinic guidance, and universities challenged by mass broadcasting. He extends this control to eugenics and selection, speculates on altered senses, memory, and specialized languages, and traces moral trends toward reduced cruelty and self-conscious, cooler emotions. Society, he suggests, will stratify into a small, tested technocratic elite and a contented majority, with sport fading as work and play merge under scientific planning. He closes by questioning whether such mastery brings happiness or virtue, noting that desire expands as achievement does, leaving fulfillment perpetually just out of reach. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76731,908,'Reading ease score: 46.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76731,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76731,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76731,693);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76731,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76731,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76731,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76732,520,'"Songs and rhymes of a lead miner" by Thomas Grierson Gracie is a collection of poems and songs written in the early 20th century. The volume evokes the work, landscape, and community life of Wanlockhead and the Lowther Hills, told in Scots dialect and plainspoken English. It mingles nature sketches, mining-life vignettes, village customs, and music-making with elegies and patriotic verses shaped by the Great War. Expect intimate local color, moral reflections, and occasional humor from a miner-musician’s point of view.  The opening of the collection begins with a candid preface in which the author recounts a hard childhood in Wanlockhead, years as a lead and coal miner, his love of the fiddle, and his turn to rhyming during wartime, stressing that he writes for ordinary folk and thanking local editors and friends. It then moves through descriptive pieces: moonlit winter vistas over the Lowthers that prompt a prayer for peace, comic and lively accounts of fishing trips and a grouse meet, a breathless otter hunt, a graveside procession, and lyrical walks along Mennock Burn and the Heights of Glendyne. Village life and memory follow—an old-time wedding, affection for a family wall clock amid modern inventions, a satire of a sour “Curmudgeon,” praise of local rivers and a memorial seat—before a series of in memoriam poems for townsfolk and soldiers, tributes to volunteers, and a tender lament for a pit pony. The Songs section mixes nostalgia and courtship with mining humor (“Level No. 6,” an emergency pump), recruiting and morale numbers, and local portraits, while the Miscellaneous pieces turn to social critique (“Scunner’t”), a toast to an absent friend, and a closing, unfinished portrait of the miner’s steadfastness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76732,908,'Reading ease score: 79.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76732,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76732,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76733,520,'"Celtic art in Pagan and Christian times" by J. Romilly Allen is a scholarly archaeological and art-historical study written in the early 20th century. It investigates the origins, development, and motifs of Celtic art in Britain and Ireland across two broad phases—pagan and Christian—set against Continental cultures such as Hallstatt and La Tène. Drawing on excavations, museum collections, and comparative ornament, the work explains how patterns like spirals, chevrons, and knotwork evolved and appeared on metalwork, pottery, sculpture, and, by analogy, illuminated manuscripts.  The opening of the study states its aim to synthesize current evidence on Celtic art’s origins and growth, crediting recent discoveries (Aylesford, Glastonbury, Hunsbury; Hallstatt and La Tène; Marne cemeteries) for reshaping the timeline and sources of influence. It sketches the Celts in Classical literature and art, then pivots to archaeology to define the Hallstatt (earlier) and La Tène (later) Iron Age cultures, their weapons, fibulae, shields, helmets, and the role of Greek trade in shaping Gaulish styles; it also stresses the Celts’ habit of imitating foreign coinage. The narrative then traces how Goidelic Celts entered Bronze Age Britain, encountering Neolithic Iberian-like populations, and distinguishes Goidels and Brythons linguistically (Q vs P) and culturally (Bronze vs Early Iron Age), before proposing broad Bronze Age chronologies. At the start of the art discussion, the book catalogs the primary evidence—barrows, settlements, hoards, stray finds, and rock carvings—and shows how Bronze Age burial customs and pottery types (cinerary urns, food-vessels, drinking-cups, incense-cups) are decorated chiefly with chevron-based geometric schemes executed by impressing cords, tools, and stamps. It explains, with clear geometric breakdowns, how triangles, lozenges, saltires, and hexagon effects derive from the chevron, and contrasts these with spiral motifs found on carved stones (notably at Newgrange) rather than on British bronzes. The section closes by linking those spirals to Scandinavian Bronze Age metalwork, underscoring a web of Continental connections. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76733,908,'Reading ease score: 61.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76733,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76733,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76733,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76733,660);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76734,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge is an illustrated popular-education periodical written in the early 19th century. It offers a miscellany of practical science, history, moral instruction, literature, and cultural notes aimed at general readers, with a clear focus on diffusing useful knowledge and encouraging self-improvement.  This issue ranges widely: a data-rich article on butter surveys production, trade, and global uses (from Indian ghee to Arab consumption and London demand); an eloquent reflection “Of Peace” (after Clarendon); Benjamin Franklin’s list of moral virtues and a daily schedule; and a report on schooling in Smyrna, especially among Greeks. A calendar of notable dates sketches Dante, William Pitt, the Restoration, Ascension Day, and Poussin. A substantial museum essay explains the “Younger Memnon” colossus and Belzoni’s removal of it. A moral tale, “The Flute-Player,” shows a marriage rescued by kindness, moderation, and the restoration of innocent recreation. There’s a note on the arrival of forks in England, poems by Wordsworth and (attributed) Southey, and a string of concise lessons and anecdotes on late learning, temperance, wise rulership, longevity through virtue, naval architecture, and the statistical regularity of mortality—all serving the magazine’s blend of edification and accessible curiosity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76734,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76734,908,'Reading ease score: 54.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76734,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76735,520,'"Winnetou :  Het opperhoofd der Apachen" by Karl May is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the American West, it traces a young German newcomer who grows into “Old Shatterhand” and forms a profound friendship with the Apache chief Winnetou amid surveying missions, frontier peril, and cultural conflict. The tale blends high adventure with a passionate critique of the injustices done to Native Americans.  The opening of the novel begins with a heartfelt preface mourning the decline of Indigenous peoples and announcing the story as a memorial to Winnetou. It then follows a self-styled “greenhorn” in St. Louis who impresses a gruff gunsmith, Mr. Henry, with extraordinary marksmanship, subdues a vicious horse, and—thanks to a discreet “examination”—is recruited as a surveyor for a railroad expedition, receiving a gifted rifle and mount and meeting the guides Sam Hawkins, Dick Stone, and Willy Parker. On the Canadian River section, the work stalls under a drunken chief and lazy guards while the narrator quietly does the real labor; a visiting engineer, Mr. White, exposes the mismanagement. A heated confrontation ends with the narrator flooring two bullies and earning the nickname Old Shatterhand, after which White warns of Indian danger. A brief scouting ride concludes with the discovery of a fresh footprint near a stream, foreshadowing imminent contact. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76735,500,'https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winnetou,_het_grote_opperhoofd',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76735,908,'Reading ease score: 77.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76735,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76735,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76735,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76736,520,'"L''Afrique centrale française : Récit du voyage de la mission" by Auguste Chevalier et al. is a scientific travel account and expedition report written in the early 20th century. It chronicles the French Chari–Lake Chad mission through Central Africa, blending route narratives with studies in botany, geology, ethnography, and colonial economics. The focus is on mapping regions between the Congo, Oubangui, and Lake Chad, establishing experimental gardens, and assessing resources such as rubber, copal, and food crops within the context of French colonial administration.  The opening of this account explains how the mission was conceived, funded, and staffed, outlining official backing, scientific aims, and the team’s roles. It follows the party from France to Brazzaville via the Congo railway, contrasts the disrepair of Brazzaville with the orderly Belgian Léopoldville, and details early botanical work that identifies the so‑called “grass-root rubber” from Landolphia species. The narrative then shifts to the river journey up the Congo and Oubangui toward Bangui, with close observation of forests, islands, copal and oil palms, village agriculture, and abandoned settlements linked to recent unrest, while noting evolving local customs and the spread of introduced crops. It closes in this excerpt with vivid travel notes and a clear critique of abuses by concession agents and poorly supervised troops as the boat reaches Bondjo-country villages like Isasa. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76736,908,'Reading ease score: 68.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76736,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76736,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76736,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76736,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76737,520,'The sociable ghost :  Being the adventures of a reporter who was invited by the…. by Olive Harper is a satirical supernatural novel written in the early 20th century. Set in and beneath New York’s Trinity Churchyard, it follows a young newspaper man and a loquacious “Sociable Ghost” through a night of ghostly revels—banquets, dances, and conventions—used to lampoon high society, publishers, and pious pretenses. The tone is comic and irreverent, mixing urban history with witty afterlife etiquette and class commentary.  The opening of the novel finds a heartbroken reporter brooding in Trinity churchyard, where the graves stir and a sardonic ghost borrows his pipe and whiskey, then guides him through a cemetery tour laced with jokes about epitaphs, cherub carvings, “passports” for the dead, and the folly of memorial sentiment. The ghost explains this is the one night ghosts may freely walk, previews an underground convention and ball, mocks mediums, and gossips about the famous (including a vignette of John Jacob Astor’s spirit happily working an old baling press). Led through the Lawrence tomb into a vast, flower-lit hall curated by a grand social impresario, the reporter witnesses a chaotic card-room episode where a hulking professional gambler unwillingly teaches six lady ghosts poker with beans, and then hears a “mended ghost” recount the brutal mishandling of remains during a church vault relocation. The section closes as a sumptuous banquet begins, the reporter is welcomed to a prime seat, and a spirited quarrel over manners—knives, saucers, and “civilization”—sets the satirical tone for what follows. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76737,908,'Reading ease score: 72.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76737,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76737,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76737,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76737,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76738,520,'"Delle speranze d''Italia" by conte Cesare Balbo is a political treatise written in the mid-19th century. It argues for a moderate, practical path to Italian nationhood: rejecting both reactionary conservatism and revolutionary maximalism, and favoring a confederation of the existing states to secure independence—especially from Austrian dominance—while acknowledging the moral influence of the papacy. The work engages current debates sparked by Vincenzo Gioberti and seeks to ground hope in realistic institutions, historical precedent, and steady reform.  The opening of the treatise sets its purpose through two dedications to Gioberti, praising his stimulus while declaring a distinct, moderate course against the “extremes” and the “despairing.” Balbo asserts that Italy’s political order is unsound chiefly because it lacks full national independence, a defect that distorts all other institutions and even weakens the papacy’s spiritual authority when its temporal power appears dependent. He then surveys potential arrangements: he rejects a unitary kingdom of Italy as impractical and divisive (not least because of the papal question), dismisses a neo‑Ghibelline “Austrian Italy” as both impossible and harmful, and rebuffs a patchwork of small republics as regressive and unviable. In contrast, he endorses a confederation of existing states, citing Italian precedents from the Etruscans to the Lombard League and Lorenzo de’ Medici, while cautioning against over‑specifying details like a papal presidency; he closes this opening by naming the chief immediate obstacle to any confederation: Austria’s entrenched dominance within the peninsula. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76738,500,'https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Le_speranze_d%27Italia',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76738,908,'Reading ease score: 32.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76738,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76738,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76738,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76739,520,'Ingrid by Selma Lagerlöf is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in Sweden, it follows Gunnar Hede, a gifted violinist and heir desperate to save the Monnikshut estate, and Ingrid, a gentle orphan whose life intersects with his. Mixing folk-legend atmosphere with romance and moral struggle, it explores art, duty, love, and the pull of home.  The opening follows Gunnar Hede in Uppsala as a blunt friend warns him that his family estate is failing and his violin obsession has stalled his studies. After a street performance reveals his power to move crowds, Gunnar resolves to earn money, later taking to the road as a peddler; a disastrous winter drive with hundreds of goats and a broken engagement unhinge him, and he becomes the half-mad wanderer people call “Geitebok.” The scene shifts to Roglanda, where the dreamy, put-upon Ingrid, adopted by a poor pastor’s family, falls gravely ill, lapses into a trance, and is buried as if dead. On a blazing Sunday, the wandering Hede avoids the church, plays his violin by a fresh grave, and—troubled by a sound—unscrews the coffin, reviving Ingrid. Terrified of being seen in her shroud, she persuades him to hide her in his pack and carry her to the parsonage, arriving as the household prepares for her funeral. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76739,908,'Reading ease score: 83.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76739,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76739,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76740,520,'“The stories editors buy and why” by Jean Wick is an anthology and editors’ market guide written in the early 20th century. It gathers notable American magazine short stories alongside candid editor statements about why those stories were purchased, giving practical insight into taste, technique, and the varied needs of different publications.  The opening of the volume first presents a prefatory note that champions the American short story and details how editors shape markets, what different magazines seek, how technique flexes to subject and outlet, and how agents can aid writers (including a defense of agents from an editor’s letter). It then begins with Marie Van Vorst’s “The Week-End Guest,” set amid a Long Island society wedding where a decorated aviator’s open infatuation with the hostess collides with a missing-cash incident involving a pigskin purse, a midnight confrontation, and a later revelation about the stepson’s blackmail troubles that reframes earlier suspicions. At the start of the next selection, Samuel A. Derieux’s “The Terrible Charge Against Jeff Potter,” an old swamp-wise loafer is banished from a store, the store burns that night, and he’s accused; his lonely night rescuing cattle, a mysterious car in the woods, and his arrest lead to a trial where his gentle purpose—carving and staining an Indian doll for a child who trusts him—emerges as his quiet defense. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76740,908,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76740,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76740,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76740,698);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76740,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76741,520,'From sawdust to Windsor Castle by Whimsical Walker is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It charts the life of a British clown and circus–pantomime performer from a harsh childhood and fairground apprenticeships through international circus circuits to big‑top fame and command performances. Expect bustling backstage anecdotes, animal‑training exploits, and a front‑row view of popular entertainment from the circus ring to Drury Lane.  The opening of this memoir follows Walker from a stepmother’s beatings in Hull to running away at nine and hustling for work in fairs and booths—tumbling, touting for a photographer, and posing as a “living head.” He drifts through early pantomime at Whitby and a first taste of London before real training under circus proprietor Pablo Fanque, who makes him a clown and drills him in horses, vaulting, and discipline. A string of itinerant engagements brings pratfalls and peril—stage collapses, a botched double somersault, a slack‑rope scare, a lion‑tamer’s death, and endless practical jokes—alongside abortive stabs at “serious” acting at Astley’s and in mumming booths. We see provincial circuits, rough lodging‑house comedy, and brushes with notoriety, from meeting the executioner Marwood to a farcical day in court. He then sails to America, survives a brutal storm and a spilled jar of whisky, plays New York during the blowing up of Hell Gate, and meets culture clashes that make clowning risky, before trekking by caravan across the prairies with Native guides. After side trips to Java and Australia and witnessing a New York “spiritualist” swindle, he joins Barnum and Bailey, bonds with a newborn elephant, and is dispatched under sealed orders to secure the famed “Jumbo.” This opening section closes with the uproar over Jumbo’s sale, legal wrangles, a canny publicity delay, and the eventual shipment and celebrated American arrival of the beloved beast. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76741,908,'Reading ease score: 70.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76741,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76741,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76742,520,'Herinneringen by Selma Lagerlöf is a collection of autobiographical reminiscences written in the early 20th century. It traces the author’s path from a prophetic birth at the family estate Mårbacka through illness, avid reading, first encounters with theater, education, and the slow, determined making of a writer. Along the way she reflects on the genesis of her major works and on travels—including to Jerusalem—that shaped her themes and resolve. The focus is intimate and reflective, centered on how a life of stories becomes a life in literature.  The opening of this memoir begins with the night of the author’s birth, when Aunt Wennervik’s card reading predicts frail health, much travel, lifelong work, and a life with books. Childhood illness keeps her indoors, where a lurid adventure novel awakens her desire to write; a winter in Stockholm restores her strength and introduces the stage, leading to home theatricals and dreams of playwriting, followed by the heady discovery of writing her first lines of verse. As a young woman she endures anxious days awaiting admission to the teachers’ seminary and succeeds, convinced she must gain knowledge to earn her living and to write well; later, in Jerusalem, a sand-divining seer assures her the book she plans about Swedish settlers there will come to fruition. A companion piece, “A Tale of a Tale,” shows how the legends of Wermland and the atmosphere of Mårbacka grew—after false starts and a prize-winning excerpt—into the episodic, romantic form of Gösta Berling’s saga, aided by the patronage that gave her a year to finish. The section closes by shifting back to Jerusalem with a parable-like vignette about a dream interpreter slighted during a royal visit and a Western traveler’s dream of Christ ascending the minaret of El Azhar, where the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76742,908,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76742,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76743,520,'Blonde duinen by Jac. P. Thijsse is an illustrated popular natural history book written in the early 20th century. It offers guided rambles through the Dutch coastal dunes, using vivid observation and approachable explanations to reveal how plants, animals, and landscapes fit together. Expect seasonal field sketches that blend storytelling with fieldcraft, encouraging readers—especially the young—to notice, collect, and care about the living world.  The opening of the work sets out a friendly preface: these “nature albums” are meant to put good color plates and real outdoor experience within easy reach, so that young people learn nature by seeing. It quickly shifts into lively dune vignettes: a teacher’s cheerful “rabbit hunt” with pupils for skulls becomes a lesson in snares, scavengers, and rabbit life (burrows, frosty signs, rampant breeding, evening grazing). A birch-dale chapter follows with bark and fungus, then moths and larvae as masters of disguise (buff-tip, peppered moth, emerald), plus birds such as nightingale, song thrush, willow warbler, and a few deft plant notes (violets’ self-fertilizing flowers, garlic mustard with orange-tip). A June evening piece captures flowers closing and opening, moth- and hawk-moth pollination, and the arrival of bats, toads, hedgehogs, shrews, nightjars, grasshopper warblers, and stone-curlews. A hot June afternoon rounds it out with hedgerow and dune blooms, June beetles in roses, leafcutter bees fashioning brood cells, climbing bryony, showy ragwort and mullein feeders, and small passerines like tree pipit and whinchat—set against the brood-parasitic cuckoo. Overall, these first chapters read as gently didactic rambles that model how to notice, name, and connect dune life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76743,908,'Reading ease score: 68.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76743,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76743,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76743,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76744,520,'"Round the world in any number of days" by Maurice Baring is a travelogue written in the early 20th century. With urbane wit and a light, essayistic touch, it follows a long sea voyage from England through the Mediterranean and Suez to Ceylon, Australia, and New Zealand, blending portside sketches, shipboard vignettes, and literary reflections. Expect cultural commentary, humorous asides, and keen-eyed descriptions rather than practical guidance or strict itinerary.  The opening of this travelogue sets sail from strike-tangled Tilbury on an under-staffed liner, moves past a nostalgic glimpse of Plymouth, and offers brisk, vivid stops—Gibraltar in a blink, Naples in blazing color and song—before coaling at Port Said amid conjurors and cookie-cutter fortune-tellers. Crossing the Red Sea’s stifling heat (with a stoker’s tragic leap), the narrator reads and reminisces—Dumas, Hugo, Trollope—then drifts into monsoon talk, ship-music, and brisk opinions about Australian sensitivities and travel criticism, even imagining an “Australian” Chesterton. Ceylon appears in rickshaws, fans, and incomparable mangoes; later come a mock-dramatic authorial skit at sea, a ghost-story unmasked as a wayward figurehead, and a near-mishap leaving Fremantle. Adelaide prompts sharp notes on the hard lives and poor pay of merchant seamen; Melbourne flashes by; Sydney proves lively, its booksellers deft, and Andrew Lang is warmly remembered before transfer to a new ship bound for New Zealand. On board, poker, “Monte Cristo,” card-fortune jokes, school politics, and musings on modern criticism fill the days. Arrival in Wellington brings the famed wind anecdote, knife-edged hills, and prosperous streets; inland near Palmerston, the landscape recalls Siberia, children ride like centaurs, and rugby’s amateur passion is contrasted with England’s professionalism. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76744,908,'Reading ease score: 67.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76744,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76744,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76745,520,'Many Marriages by Sherwood Anderson is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows John Webster, a Midwestern washing-machine manufacturer whose sudden inner awakening disrupts his settled marriage and draws him toward his secretary, Natalie Swartz. Through sensuous imagery and introspective monologue, the book probes love, desire, conscience, and the constraints of modern respectability as Webster questions his roles as husband, father, and businessman.  The opening of the novel frames an “Explanation” to magazine readers and a foreword meditating on the terror of direct actions in love, then plunges into Webster’s day of upheaval. At work and in town, he experiences a torrent of heightened perceptions and symbols—the body-as-house, black laborers singing, a green stone—while testing his world against these revelations. He studies his wife Mary’s heaviness, his daughter Jane’s unread face, and the quiet dignity of their servant Katherine; he wanders parks and streets, considers escaping to Chicago for anonymous indulgence, then returns to find Natalie freshly bathed and dressed, wordlessly affirming their bond as he kneels with his head in her lap. Town employees notice; the bookkeeper frets and gossips, while Webster spends evenings with Natalie, imagines leaving his business and family, walks into the countryside speaking of love and openness, and, back at home, lies awake sensing the community’s judgment and the stark exposure of private lives—like rooms revealed after a fire. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76745,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Many_Marriages',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76745,908,'Reading ease score: 79.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76745,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76745,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76746,520,'"Torpan tyttö :  Kaksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Kaarlo Luoto" is a stage play written in the early 20th century. The drama centers on a crofter’s daughter whose integrity collides with class prejudice and collaboration with the Russian authorities, turning a hopeful betrothal into a grave moral test.  Hilma, the diligent daughter of torppari Mäkelä and Katri, is courted by Ville, heir to the wealthy Heinämäki farm. Though Heinämäki first insults her and tries to bully the family—going so far as to buy their tenancy to evict them—public esteem for Hilma (a prize from the folk college and an offer to teach handicrafts) softens him, and the betrothal is set. At the celebration, however, it emerges that Heinämäki and Ville have sold a prime strip of shoreline to Russians for fortification. Hilma condemns the sale as a betrayal of the nation, breaks the engagement, and refuses to support cowardice for gain. Desperate, Ville shoots himself; Heinämäki collapses into madness, raving about medals and land, and must be restrained. The community affirms Hilma’s courage, framing the tragedy as the price of moral compromise rather than the fault of the “torpan girl.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76746,908,'Reading ease score: 59.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76746,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76747,520,'"Paras ystävätär :  Avioliittoromaani" by Martti Wuori is a marriage novel written in the early 20th century. It portrays an intense friendship between the wealthy school-leaver Toini Karppi and her younger schoolmate Hillevi, whose beauty and precocious poise draw admiring eyes and stir rivalries. As the ambitious lawyer Herbert Hursti courts Toini, a subtle triangle forms, testing loyalty, class sensibilities, and the boundaries of female friendship on the brink of marriage.  The opening follows a school recess where Toini openly dotes on Hillevi and invites her to lavish birthday dances at the Karppi home, provoking classmates’ envy. At the ball, Hillevi’s striking looks and dancing captivate the room—and catch Herbert’s eye—while his ongoing attentions to Toini advance toward an unspoken understanding. A summer in Baden-Baden cements the engagement, after which Hillevi’s hurt surfaces briefly before she reconciles and frequents the couple’s company, masking deeper feelings with tact and charm. Preparations intensify as the groom shifts into diplomatic service and the family readies a grand church wedding, with the narrative poised at the decorated altar as the ceremony approaches. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76747,908,'Reading ease score: 41.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76747,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76747,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76748,520,'"On art and artists" by Max Simon Nordau is a collection of art criticism essays written in the early 20th century. The work contends that art has an essential social mission, rejecting “art for art’s sake,” and argues that modern, democratic societies need art that dignifies labor and expands the inner life stunted by specialization. It combines theory with incisive case studies—from medieval French painters to modern sculptors and realists—to show how art has served religion, power, and, increasingly, the public, while critiquing fashionable movements that mistake novelty for substance.  The opening of this work lays out a psychological and historical case against pure aestheticism: early art (from cave drawings to children’s sketches) may spring from private impulse, but as civilization develops, artists address audiences, patrons, and social needs. The author surveys how ancient, medieval, and Renaissance art served gods, rulers, and institutions; how modern criticism and public exhibitions shifted authority to critics and the crowd; and why, in an industrial age of extreme specialization, art should restore wholeness and self-respect—especially by ennobling work rather than wallowing in grim realism. He proposes “socialistic art” that arouses pity for the disinherited and reverence for honest labor, exemplified through vivid readings of Constantin Meunier’s miners, smiths, and reapers (while noting a few missteps), and links this to Millet’s moral gravity. A subsequent essay dissects style as the tension between construction (utility) and decoration (luxury), praising organic, meaning-rich ornament and critiquing mindless imitation and derivative “Secessionist” fashion. The opening then revisits medieval French masters, challenging the myth that French art merely copied Flemish or Italian models, highlighting naturalism in manuscript-derived painting, the greatness of Fouquet and the Master of Moulins, and the subtle, proto-revolutionary realism latent in sacred scenes, before turning to a century survey that begins to reassess eighteenth-century painters against the politics of taste. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76748,908,'Reading ease score: 50.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76748,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76748,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76748,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76749,520,'"Evolution made plain by John Mason" is a concise popular science pamphlet written in the early 20th century. It is a scientific publication that introduces the theory of evolution in plain language, explaining how natural selection and other natural laws account for the development of all life, including humans.  The book defines what evolution is and is not, separates it from common misconceptions, and surveys geological time and the fossil record to show a progression from simple to complex forms. It marshals anatomical and embryological evidence (homologies, vestigial organs, and stages of development), discusses “connecting links,” and compares humans and apes alongside early human fossils. It explains natural selection, variation, artificial selection, and the idea of mutations, then extends these ideas to social thought, urging free inquiry and tolerance while criticizing biblical literalism and popular objections. In its final sections it applies heredity and environment to human progress, argues for the primacy of the common good, and controversially advocates eugenic measures, calling for improved environments and responsible reproduction as the path to future advancement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76749,908,'Reading ease score: 51.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76749,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76750,520,'"The two countesses" by Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach is a novel written in the late 19th century. It juxtaposes two aristocratic women—impulsive, witty Muschi and reflective, principled Paula—each facing courtship, convention, and the pull between love and social ambition within the Austro-Hungarian nobility. Expect lively social comedy, sharp character sketches, and probing questions about integrity, vanity, and how marriages are made.  The beginning of the novel alternates between Countess Muschi’s breezy letters and Countess Paula’s earnest memoirs. Muschi, bored at Sebenberg, sizes up a visiting Swabian suitor, spars with his pedantry, stages pranks and hunts, then deftly redirects his proposal to her demure friend Clara Aarheim—securing their engagement while revealing her own restless standards. In contrast, Paula recalls a sheltered upbringing, a crisis of conscience that ended her enthusiasm for hunting, and a deepening intellectual life (sparked by Don Quixote) as her family steers her toward the proud Count Taxen. At soirées she encounters the idealistic, unlucky Baron Schwarzburg, whose integrity captivates her, even as gossip swirls and her parents press the advantageous match with Taxen. The opening closes with Paula refusing to feign affection for the approved suitor and bracing for a family confrontation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76750,908,'Reading ease score: 73.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76750,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76750,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76750,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76751,520,'Landesverein Sächsischer Heimatschutz — Mitteilungen Band XV, Heft 7–10… is a regional heritage periodical (collection of essays) written in the early 20th century. It examines the Leipzig region through landscape history, ecology, folklore, and monument care, with a clear conservationist outlook. Expect detailed pieces on the geological making of the Leipzig plain, the life and preservation of its floodplain forests, local customs, and the pressures of mining and urban growth, supported by photographs, maps, and field observations.  The opening of this volume presents editorial notes, publishing details, a contents overview, and a notice of a small exhibition, then moves into three substantial essays. Richard Buch traces the Leipzig land’s formation from ancient variscan roots and Rotliegend volcanism through the Zechstein and Buntsandstein eras, the subtropical Tertiary with its brown coal, and the Ice Age that laid moraines, leveled plains, and created the fertile floodplains and Auenwald; he pairs geology with an advocate’s eye for the plain’s quiet beauty and notes modern scars from open-cast mining. Professor Naumann then portrays the Auwald west of Leipzig as a classic floodplain forest shaped by periodic inundation, detailing its tree mix (oak, ash, elm, hornbeam; willows and alders), undergrowth and rich spring flora, hydrology, and root ecology (including mycorrhiza), while highlighting protected zones like the Polenz at the Hundewasser and Luppe landscapes and warning against invasive plantings. Finally, Karl Berger defines “Leipziger Land,” voices concern over industrialization, suburban sprawl, and brown-coal works, and begins a walking sketch across the windswept fields north and west of the city (Rackwitz, Petersberg, the solitary Buschnaukirche), before the excerpt breaks off mid-journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76751,908,'Reading ease score: 52.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76751,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76751,685);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76751,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76751,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76751,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76751,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76752,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is an illustrated educational periodical written in the early 19th century. It offers a miscellany of short, accessible pieces—history, natural history, biography, economics, poetry, and practical advice—aimed at spreading useful knowledge to a broad public.  This issue opens with a vivid history of St. Paul’s Cathedral, from its early churches through fires, neglect, Inigo Jones’s portico, the Great Fire, and Wren’s rebuilding. It continues with a frontier letter, “An Emigrant’s Struggles,” describing exploration, hardships, and improvised living in Van Diemen’s Land. Natural history notes explain the lobster’s annual molting and the earwig’s attentive egg care. “The Week” highlights Fahrenheit and Sir William Petty, and compares thermometer scales. “The Value of a Penny” urges thrift and self-improvement; a sketch of Mirabeau surveys his turbulent genius and political power; a poem celebrates the brief life of the May-fly; and an essay on taxation contrasts high versus low duties using a hypothetical stamp on the magazine. A closing anecdote praises perseverance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76752,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76752,908,'Reading ease score: 55.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76752,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76753,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is an illustrated popular-education periodical written in the early 19th century. It offers a miscellany of natural history, antiquities, social statistics, short biographies, science primers, poetry, moral reflections, and brief historical notes, all geared toward spreading practical and entertaining knowledge to a general readership.  This issue ranges widely: it opens with vivid accounts of crocodile hunting in the Nile region and ancient Egyptian reverence for the animal, then turns to statistical snapshots of England and Wales on poor relief, crime, savings banks, and London’s growth. A gripping narrative recounts a woman’s night-time survival after a bridge collapse on the Usk, followed by brief anecdotes on law in Queen Mary’s reign, Tasso’s encounter with banditti, Parini’s call for moderation, and other moral vignettes. A substantial article on obelisks explains their form, transport, Roman relocations, and “Cleopatra’s Needle,” while a cautionary essay urges vigilance in prosperity. “The Week” sketches the lives of Adam Smith, Corneille, and Cassini; a primer on weather demystifies the air and debunks almanac forecasts; and Cowper’s “The Nightingale and Glow‑worm” offers a gentle moral on harmony. Short notes touch on learning’s decline in the Dark Ages, detecting erased ink by heat, London’s inconsistent mile-stones with a proposal for an obelisk datum, and a youthful quip from Nelson. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76753,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76753,908,'Reading ease score: 54.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76753,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76753,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76754,520,'"Het paard : in zijne natuurlijke ontwikkeling" by Wilhelm Bölsche is a popular scientific treatise written in the early 20th century. It explores the natural history and evolution of the horse, tracing its lineage from small, multi‑toed ancestors to the modern, single‑toed runner, and examines its close symbiosis with humans as a domesticated animal. Expect a blend of anatomy, paleontology, and behavioral insight that connects fossil evidence, comparative anatomy, and cultural history to explain what makes the horse unique.  The opening of this work sets out its purpose: to tell the full evolutionary story of the horse, beginning with tiny Eocene ancestors and linking them to living forms and domestic breeds. It recaps the rise of mammals from reptile‑like forebears through monotremes and marsupials to early placental groups, highlighting a pivotal Eocene fauna (the “Cernays” forms) from which hoofed animals emerge. The text defines domestication as a lasting symbiosis rather than mere captivity, illustrating the idea with classic plant–fungus and ant–aphid partnerships before applying it to horses, dogs, and livestock. A clear, step‑by‑step anatomical comparison explains how the horse stands on a single middle toe, with splint bones as vestiges of lost digits, and how this design achieves speed, endurance, and load‑bearing. It then sketches the horse’s instincts and signal‑sensitivity (including the “Clever Hans” case) and turns to the fossil record, from Cuvier’s early finds to the rich American deposits, noting that true horses once ranged widely in the Americas before disappearing there prior to European contact. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76754,908,'Reading ease score: 54.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76754,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76754,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76755,520,'"Ojibwa myths and tales by Geo. E. Laidlaw" is a collection of Indigenous folklore and oral histories written in the early 20th century. The book gathers Ojibwa (Anishinaabe) myths, legends, and local traditions from the Rama Reserve and surrounding Ontario lakes, focusing on the trickster-hero Nanabush, Thunderbirds, witches, giants, and culture-shaping encounters. Its likely topic is the worldview, moral codes, and mythic geography of the Ojibwa as preserved in stories told by elders and tradition-keepers.  The tales range from comic trickster episodes—Nanabush luring ducks to dance, scorching himself after a feast is stolen, and leaving marks on the land—to awe-filled encounters with Thunderbirds, lake monsters, and Wintigoes. They include animal-origin stories (why the diver’s feet are flat; why muskrats have small eyes; how birds arose; tailless sturgeon), and moral narratives about fidelity, fasting and power, courage in war, and the end of killing the elderly. Several accounts chronicle Ojibwa–Mohawk conflicts, notable rescues and revenges, and a battle led by a visionary girl. Other highlights include a journey to retrieve a wife from the land of the dead with Nanabush’s help, witches who fly in owl or turkey skins, a loyal little dog who grows to defend his master, and the “Thunderbolt” and Nim-Mah-Kie, tiny shining beings who set lightning. The book closes with modern-tinged tales—a hunter who marries a king’s daughter by his cooking, a bargain with a hawk—and a firsthand bear-hunting feat, anchoring myth beside lived experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76755,908,'Reading ease score: 87.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76755,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76755,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76756,520,'The Orkney book : Readings for young Orcadians by John Gunn is a regional educational anthology written in the early 20th century. Aimed at school readers, it blends local history, geography, natural history, and legend to root learning in the islands themselves, drawing on Orcadian experts and illustrated extracts. Its core focus is Orkney’s story from prehistory through the Norse earldom, alongside portraits of the landscape, wildlife, crafts, and lore that shape island identity.  The opening of the collection sets a proud, homesick tone with a poem to the “Sons of the Isles,” then a preface stating its purpose: to begin knowledge at home, offer suggestive readings rather than exhaustive study, and acknowledge the many local contributors and patrons. A detailed contents map leads into brisk chapters on prehistoric Orkney—flint tools, chambered cairns like Maeshowe, brochs, and standing stones—followed by early glimpses in classical and church sources, Culdee traces in place-names, and the likelihood that Norse settlers met few inhabitants. It then explains the Viking world and the Sagas as key sources, and narrates the early earldom: Harald Fairhair’s reach west, Sigurd the Mighty and Torf-Einar, a violent “dark century,” Olaf Tryggvason’s forced conversion, and the battle of Clontarf. The section proceeds to Thorfinn the Mighty, the martyrdom of Earl Magnus at Egilsay, and Rognvald Kali’s vow to raise St. Magnus Cathedral as he moves to reclaim the isles, ending mid-plot with the clever beacon ruse. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76756,908,'Reading ease score: 68.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76756,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76757,520,'"A journey through the Yemen and some general remarks upon that country" by Harris is a travelogue and historical account written in the late 19th century. It blends a clear survey of Yemen’s geography, history, and religious currents with an illustrated first-hand journey from Aden into the interior during Ottoman rule and local unrest.  The opening of this work sets out its aims and offers a concise primer on Yemen: uncertain inland boundaries, the contrast between the arid Teháma plains and the fertile, terraced Jibál highlands, climate and crops (notably coffee), and key ports, islands, towns, and tribes. It outlines native provincial divisions and the practical limits of Ottoman control, then surveys pre-Islamic civilisations (Minæan and Sabæan), the Marib dam and the Queen of Sheba, Abyssinian and Persian domination, the advent of Islam, and early pretenders. The account moves briskly through later dynasties, European trading forays, the first Ottoman occupation, the rise of the Qasimi Imams, Wahhabi incursions, and 19th-century Egyptian and Ottoman interventions that left the Imamate weakened and the coast in Turkish hands. It closes this opening with a brief defense of Islam against Western misconceptions, foreshadowing a deeper look at religious influences. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76757,908,'Reading ease score: 58.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76757,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76757,655);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76758,520,'Heroic airmen and their exploits by E. Walter Walters is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It traces the rise of flight and celebrates the courage of First World War pilots and aircrew, especially those who battled Zeppelins over Britain. Emphasizing narrative over technicalities, it highlights notable flyers and dramatic interceptions that captured the public imagination.  The opening of the work sets a non-technical, commemorative tone, sketches the aim to illuminate brave deeds, and briefly outlines how the book will proceed. It surveys early airship progress (the Robert brothers, Giffard, Tissandier, Renard) and Santos-Dumont’s achievements, then moves through semi‑rigid and non‑rigid designs toward the Zeppelin, alongside the birth of the aeroplane from Wenham, Maxim, Langley, and the Wrights to Farman, Blériot, and Antoinette. Clear explanations of Zeppelin structure and buoyancy control, plus a primer on aeroplane handling and pilot training, prepare readers for wartime episodes. The narrative then recounts 1916 raids on Britain and the actions that stopped them: Robinson’s destruction of a Zeppelin at Cuffley, Sowrey and Brandon bringing down or forcing down two more (with the detailed inspection of L33), and Lieutenant W. K. Tempest’s night interception near Potters Bar—told through eyewitness scenes of searchlights, gunfire, blazing wreckage, and the honors that followed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76758,908,'Reading ease score: 61.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76758,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76758,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76758,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76759,520,'"The strange house : or, A moment''s mistake" by Catharine Shaw is a novel written in the late 19th century. The story blends domestic drama, a gentle mystery, and Christian moral themes as young governess Gertrude Ashlyn joins the Shaddock family near Hampstead and becomes uneasy about the secretive neighbor in the “Strange House.” Alongside her work with spirited pupils—especially sensitive Hugh and trouble-prone Randall—runs her sister Rose’s ongoing search for a missing child and a quiet current of unspoken love from family friend Otto. It promises a tale of home life, conscience, and providence threaded through with a suburban mystery.  The opening of the story sets two lines in motion: the Shaddock boys witness a policeman seize their furtive neighbor while unexplained lights gleam in his supposedly solitary house, and far away by the sea Gertrude accepts a governess post as her widowed mother’s eyesight fails, leaving Otto to wrestle with his feelings. On arrival, Gertrude meets brisk Mollie, sober Daisy, bullied Hugh, and impish Randall, endures a chaotic household, and quietly steadies herself with prayer. Conway pokes into the neighbor’s habits; a marmalade prank hints at Randall’s mischief; and a chance spill from the neighbor’s basket—rice, sewing, and a small pair of mended child’s shoes—stirs Gertrude’s memory of Rose’s vanished little Lester. The narrative then reveals a woman and man hiding a child in that house, letters addressed to “X. Y. Z.”, and a late-night dash to a Highgate school where their older boy, Johnnie, dies after begging his mother to return the abducted child to his real mother. Rose, reading Gertrude’s letter, resolves to visit, while a bank-note mishap at the Shaddocks’ ends with Randall blaming Hugh and their mother misjudging the case, leaving tensions high as the opening section closes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76759,908,'Reading ease score: 83.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76759,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76759,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76759,640);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76760,520,'"On the mountain; or, Lost and found" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a didactic children''s novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on Fanny Lilly, a spoiled Boston girl sent to her grandmother’s mountain farm, where her pride, dishonesty, and class snobbery are challenged by firm discipline, a steady farm boy named Willy, and a wild neighbor, Sarah Leyman. The tale blends homely incidents with moral testing, emphasizing truthfulness, humility, and Christian faith amid small-town gossip and real peril.  At the start of the story, Fanny returns from church full of contempt and is firmly checked by her grandmother, leading to a showdown over dinner that ends in tears, bread-and-milk, and a sketch of Fanny’s pampered past and her exile to the farm. Despite warnings, she falls in with Sarah, who helps steal a pie through the milkroom slats; when the theft is discovered, Fanny lies smoothly while Willy is questioned. Conversations reveal Fanny’s startling ignorance (even about the Holy Land), she overeats, falls ill, and then declares she will be “good,” though mostly in appearance. An errand introduces her to kindly Mrs. Cassell, Annie Mercer, and Mr. Brandon, who lends books, while Sarah confronts Fanny about confession and hypocrisy; soon after, Sarah saves Fanny from a loose bull by sacrificing the girl’s red cloak. Fanny remains fearful and evasive as mountain dangers are noted; when Sarah quietly attends a prayer meeting, Fanny slanders her to keep her and her grandmother apart, prompting Willy to rebuke Fanny’s snobbery and deceit as the opening section closes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76760,908,'Reading ease score: 83.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76760,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76760,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76760,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76760,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76761,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0033: De Alarmkreet" by Kurt Matull and Theo von Blankensee is a serialized crime adventure story written in the early 20th century. It follows the gentleman-thief John C. Raffles (Lord Lister) and his loyal aide Charly Brand as they target a scurrilous London weekly, De Alarmkreet, whose editor Röttger and his partner “the Beautiful Guido” extort and slander for profit. Raffles mounts an elaborate sting to expose the blackmailers, protect their victims, and simultaneously outmaneuver the ever-harried Inspector Baxter.  The opening of the story paints De Alarmkreet as a gaudy yet shabby scandal sheet that hides its editors and survives by shaking down the vulnerable. After the paper smears Raffles, Charly meets fur-merchant Thomas Spancer, who is being blackmailed over a shopgirl’s attempted suicide. Raffles then lures editor Röttger by posing as “Detective Marholm,” brandishing a forged “Raffles-to-Baxter” letter that suggests police collusion, which prompts Röttger and Guido to try extorting Inspector Baxter directly. The real Marholm overhears, privately contacts Raffles, and agrees to help spring the trap. Next, Raffles masquerades as “Lord Melbourne,” the supposed poisoner of his stepmother, and receives the pair in his villa with Charly disguised as a butler, setting up a “salutary lesson” as the confrontation begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76761,908,'Reading ease score: 74.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76761,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76761,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76761,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76761,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76762,520,'Tuintjes by C. M. van Hille-Gaerthé is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The book delicately explores how gardens and small green places shape human feeling and connection—within marriages, among children, and across the final years of life.  In the first story, a man’s devotion to his garden strains his marriage when his wife cuts his campanulas out of spite; yet a gentle evening—walking with their anxious child and sharing quiet tea—opens a path toward tenderness. The second follows a mother who dreams of a perfect future garden but, through her children’s messy plots, games, and the gift of a single sugared strawberry, learns to cherish the abundant life of the present. The last paints a springtime hofje where elderly women tend tiny beds, nurse old slights and friendships, and receive a visiting painter; beneath pear blossoms, small rituals and whispered sympathies glow, and the tale closes on a soft meditation about age, time, and who will live to see the fruit ripen. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76762,908,'Reading ease score: 69.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76762,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76763,520,'"Lasiseinä :  Romaani" by Signe Stenbäck-Lönnberg is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in an Alpine spa town and convent hospital, it follows the Finnish sculptor and mother Ritva Orjatmaa as illness, memory, and beauty pull her back toward life while a charged connection with the young doctor Franz Haller unsettles the steadfast nun Sister Felicia. The story probes faith and doubt, desire and duty, art and motherhood, and the invisible “glass wall” between renunciation and lived passion.  The opening of the novel paints an Alpine valley in 1910: nuns process to mass, bells roll across the mountains, and Sister Felicia wrestles with an inner storm, recalling her childhood healing, her mother’s vow, and the distant figure of Franz from her home valley. Into the convent’s hospital arrives Ritva, a gifted Finnish artist, with a rational, distant husband, Eero; exhausted but defiant, she clings to her twin daughters in memory and balks at death. Her care is split between stern, self-contained Felicia and the warm novice Sister Anna, while Dr. Franz Haller’s visits kindle hope. Ritva’s backstory unfolds: seaside childhood and clay figures, Paris studies cut short, marriage to the much older Eero, an isolating domestic life, a tender dance with her mother broken by Eero’s severity, and the stillbirth of a son. As spring comes, Ritva’s fever lifts, her will to live returns, and conversations with Franz (about his ancestral Ramez, its shrines, and the art of the valley) deepen their bond; Felicia’s own crisis intensifies into silent jealousy. Ritva hides her husband’s letters, accepts Franz’s invitation, and rides through flowering slopes to the Ramez castle, where Franz’s father welcomes her—just as the first tour of the old halls begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76763,908,'Reading ease score: 45.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76763,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76764,520,'"Landscape with figures" by Ronald Fraser is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a circle of European “Seven Sages” led by the industrial magnate Lord Sombrewater, whose minute-writer Ambrose Herbert narrates their voyage into an idealized China where art, landscape, and philosophy blur. Blending travel fantasy with philosophical comedy, it contrasts Western power, science, and appetite with ancient Chinese poise, with Lychnis—Sombrewater’s vivid, questing daughter—at the emotional center.  The opening of the novel presents a preface framing the tale as a mind’s encounter with Chinese art, then shifts to Ambrose’s calm diary of the Sages aboard the yacht Floating Leaf in eastern waters. After lyrical sea scenes and sharp portraits of the party—Lord Sombrewater, Lychnis, Ruby, Terence, Quentin, Sir Richard, Fulke, Sprot, and the ascetic Blackwood—a threatened mutiny and a storm push them to a river mouth amid fantastical hills. Guided by Terence’s vision of “Peach-blossom People” and the inscrutable Chinese steward they nickname Such-a-one, they abandon the yacht, don Chinese dress, and pole upstream. Along the way, Quentin’s brashness startles villagers until Such-a-one’s words disperse the crowds, Fulke privately declares his hopeless love for Lychnis, and a night sighting of a silent “dragon” (perhaps an aircraft) heightens the sense of myth. They work through a warm, intricate gorge, swim, and enter a serene valley of willows, blossoms, and lotus-lakes dominated by a rocky “Dragon Island.” Finally, they install themselves in exquisite pavilions—Lord Sombrewater, Lychnis, Ruby, Sir Richard, and Ambrose in the “Pavilion of the Yellow Emperor”—to begin their sojourn in this cultivated dream-land. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76764,908,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76764,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76764,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76764,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76765,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0333: De liefde van een bokser" by Matull, Blankensee, and Hageman is a pulp adventure novella written in the early 20th century. The tale follows the Gentleman-Thief Lord Lister (alias Raffles) and his aide Charly as they discover and secretly mentor a prodigiously talented young boxer, Joe Mascott, while an unscrupulous banker, Pinkerton, emerges as both Joe’s employer and rival for the love of Daisy Chairman. Expect a mix of ringside drama, mentorship, and scheming in postwar London’s sporting and social underworld.  The opening of the story finds Raffles and Charly ducking a downpour into Black Jimmy Stanley’s gym, where they witness Joe Mascott’s exceptional skill and Raffles steers him to elite trainer Fred Simons. Raffles quietly arranges to pay for Joe’s lessons; Simons confirms Joe’s brilliance and sets sights on a forthcoming match with a 500‑pound purse. Joe then confides his precarious home life, his devotion to Daisy, and the coercion Pinkerton exerts through her father’s debts. When Pinkerton pressures Daisy and tries to force a kiss, Joe steps in and slaps him, prompting Pinkerton to vow revenge and seek out George Malony at Black Jimmy’s to hatch a dirty scheme. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76765,908,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76765,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76765,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76765,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76766,520,'"Frühling :  Der deutsche Lenz und was er blühn und werden läßt" by Ernst Weber et al. is an anthology of German poetry and prose written in the early 20th century. Gathered for youth and general readers, it celebrates the German spring in songs, poems, a fairy tale, and short prose pieces by both classic and folk voices. Expect nature’s awakening—birds, blossoms, winds, rains, and the turn from April to May—alongside gentle calls to hope, courage, and renewal.  The opening of the collection moves from a heralding prelude into a parade of spring scenes: late-winter chill, the first violets and snowdrops, and brief urban and rural moments brightened by a single flower. Short narratives and lyrics alternate—an old man’s violet bouquet stirring memories before he gifts it to his daughter, the exuberant dawn-walk that watches the sun “conquer” the mountains, and a series of bird and weather pieces (lark, stork, cuckoo; March storms, April showers) marking the season’s advance. Classic and folk tones mingle, from tender consolations and brave exhortations to the inclusion of Sleeping Beauty as an emblem of long sleep and awakening. The sequence trends from pre-spring longing to Easter light and on toward May, sketching a clear arc of nature’s and the heart’s revival. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76766,908,'Reading ease score: 78.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76766,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76766,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76766,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76766,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76767,520,'"The story of John Smeaton and the Eddystone lighthouse" by Anonymous is a historical/biographical account written in the early 20th century. It traces the development of lighthouse technology and focuses on the perilous Eddystone reef, highlighting John Smeaton’s pioneering stone lighthouse and the earlier, ill-fated towers by Henry Winstanley and John Rudyerd. The work blends accessible engineering history with a concise life of Smeaton, emphasizing practical ingenuity, perseverance, and public service.  The opening of the book surveys lighthouses from antiquity—the Pharos of Alexandria, Roman beacons at Dover, and early English pitch-pot signals—through the rise of organized coastal lighting under Trinity House and the shortcomings of primitive fires and braziers. It then shifts to the Eddystone reef’s location and danger, recounting Winstanley’s ornate wooden tower swept away in a great storm, and Rudyerd’s elegant timber-and-granite structure destroyed by fire. Enter Smeaton, who designs a heavier, all-stone, oak-trunk-shaped tower, houses a work crew on a nearby vessel, and builds with dovetailed granite, marble center plugs, iron cramps, and vaulted rooms—culminating in a durable light that has stood against Atlantic gales. Interwoven are vivid set pieces: the hazards of working windows of calm, a near-fatal charcoal fume incident, and the triumphant lighting of the lantern. The section then begins Smeaton’s life story—his Yorkshire boyhood of mechanical tinkering, turn to instrument-making in London, methodical studies, Royal Society work, a learning trip to the Low Countries, and the persistent, weather-thwarted surveys that preceded construction—establishing both the technical foundations and character that drive the narrative forward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76767,908,'Reading ease score: 53.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76767,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76767,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76767,657);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76768,520,'"English grammar" by Lillian Kimball Stewart is a grammar textbook written in the early 20th century. It explains the principles of modern English usage with clear definitions, practical rules, and plentiful exercises designed to build correct habits of speech and confident sentence analysis for school use. The coverage moves step by step from sentences and parts of speech to phrases, clauses, sentence types, and punctuation, keeping a strong focus on practice supported by teacher guidance.  The opening of this textbook states its practical aim—mastery through imitation, practice, and reasoning—presents a carefully sequenced plan, and then begins instruction. It defines sentences (especially declarative ones), subjects and predicates, simple subjects and nouns (common vs. proper), verbs, and pronouns; adds compound subjects and predicates and transposed word order; and introduces interrogative sentences. Next come adjectives and adverbs (including series and placement), phrases (adjective and adverbial) and sentence analysis, prepositions and their objects with careful usage notes, and independent elements (terms of address and exclamatory nouns). It then treats imperative sentences, interjections, and exclamatory sentences; explains conjunctions; distinguishes clauses and simple, compound, and complex sentences; and finishes this opening portion with concise reviews of sentence classification and the eight parts of speech, all reinforced by graduated exercises and model analyses. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76768,908,'Reading ease score: 73.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76768,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76768,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76769,520,'"Oriole''s daughter, a novel, Volume 3 (of 3)" by Jessie Fothergill is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Fulvia Marchmont, a Roman beauty trapped in a lavish but loveless marriage to a sickly millionaire in an English country house, as her bond with her austere protector Signor Oriole (her unacknowledged father) collides with a deepening love for the painter Hans Riemann. Moving between Yewridge Hall’s staged opulence and haunting memories of Rome, it probes duty, reputation, and the price of freedom. Expect a cool, incisive social drama of endurance, temptation, and moral risk.  The opening of the book shows the Marchmonts installed at Yewridge Hall, where Fulvia maintains an impersonal poise while tending her suspicious, suffering husband and enduring sleepless nights. Society cautiously embraces her; she is admired yet distant, and she openly favors Hans’s company, unsettling onlookers and her protective neighbor Minna Hastings, whose brother Richard reads the danger with cool clarity. As Marchmont’s illness worsens and servants chafe, Fulvia meets Hans by a secluded lake; he urges elopement, she asks for three days, and Signor Oriole later warns her that Hans’s character is unworthy, a judgment she rejects. When a specialist is summoned after a brutal attack, Fulvia, exhausted and resolute, plans to leave that very night after the consultation, while a moonlit coda shows Signor Oriole wakeful and Hans returning late, sullen and impatient. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76769,908,'Reading ease score: 76.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76769,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76769,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76769,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76770,520,'Aspects of Jewish Power in the United States: Volume IV of The International Jew is a polemical collection of reprinted newspaper articles written in the early 20th century. It presents a conspiratorial, anti-Jewish account of alleged Jewish influence over American economic, political, and cultural life, framing this volume as further “studies” from The Dearborn Independent. The focus ranges from claims about the liquor industry and Prohibition to broader assertions about labor, religion, education, and national identity.  The opening of the volume lays out a preface asserting that prior exposes have awakened public opinion, then lists chapters that target specific arenas of supposed Jewish power. It begins by alleging historic Jewish dominance of the liquor trade, arguing that “rectifiers” degraded whiskey quality, helped spur Prohibition, and later orchestrated bootlegging—naming lawyers, firms, and brands to claim a vast trust and distribution network. Subsequent chapters broaden the indictment, contending that rabbis’ ritual-wine permits fueled illicit sales, and then shift to sweeping assertions about Jewish influence in labor movements, churches, and universities, portraying U.S. “Americanism” as at odds with Jewish separateness. Throughout these opening sections, the text advances accusatory claims and lists of names to suggest coordinated control, setting a strident, propagandistic tone for the rest of the work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76770,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_International_Jew',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76770,908,'Reading ease score: 53.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76770,698);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76770,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76770,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76771,520,'"A dissertation on the true age of the world : in which is determined the…" by Professor Wallace is a theological and chronological treatise written in the mid-19th century. It argues that the Septuagint’s longer genealogical numbers, rather than the Masoretic Hebrew’s shorter figures, preserve the authentic Biblical chronology from Creation to Christ, thereby lengthening the world’s age by about fifteen centuries. Using Scripture, patristic testimony, early chronographers, and selective astronomical and geological reflections, it divides sacred history into six ages and seeks to fix key epochs such as the Flood, the Exodus, and the Advent. Readers should expect a rigorous defense of the Septuagint, critiques of Usher and other modern chronologers, and discussion of prophecy, cyclical time, and the millennium.  The opening of the treatise sets out the problem: large discrepancies between the Hebrew, Septuagint, and Samaritan texts in the antediluvian and postdiluvian genealogies, a long-debated issue now made urgent by geology, astronomy, and renewed interest in prophecy. The preface outlines two parts—first, a critical reconstruction of Biblical chronology (leaning on Cuninghame and engaging Josephus, Eusebius, and others); second, an inquiry into primeval prophecy, idolatry’s origins, and the “seven ages,” with hints of astronomical cycles (including a proposed grand planetary cycle) deferred to a future volume. The introduction notes the widespread expectation of a savior at the time of Christ and claims Scripture allows the epoch to be fixed, then sketches the authority and utility of the Septuagint over against the present Hebrew text. Early chapters present tables contrasting the three textual traditions, argue that the Hebrew and Samaritan numbers show deliberate centenary adjustments while the Septuagint’s figures are internally coherent, defend the authenticity of the “second Cainan” (citing Luke), and begin correcting received views on Terah and Abraham—altogether preparing the case for the longer, Septuagint-based timeline. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76771,908,'Reading ease score: 45.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76771,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76771,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76772,520,'"Palaces and Prisons" by Ann S. Stephens is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set on the eve of the French Revolution, it intertwines court intrigue and street-level hardship, following figures like Countess Du Barry, Marie Antoinette, Dr. Gosner, Count Mirabeau, and the humble yet determined Marguerite and her mother. The story promises a clash between glittering palaces and brutal prisons, as personal fates collide with rising popular unrest.  The opening of the novel contrasts the Grand Trianon’s splendor with Parisian poverty. Du Barry imperiously presses the refined physician-seer Dr. Gosner to prolong the king’s life and predict her future; he refuses, foresees her death on a blood-soaked scaffold, and reveals the ominous power of his Egyptian scarab ring. Enraged, she secures a lettre-de-cachet to send him to the Bastille and has her dwarf, Zamara, plant the ring as a “gift” for the Dauphiness, who innocently slips it on. The scene shifts to a garret where Gosner’s starving wife and daughter, aided by the people’s man Jacques, learn that Gosner is alive in the Bastille; they pledge themselves to the cause of liberty, encounter the magnetic Mirabeau, and—through a kind market woman—find Marguerite work selling flowers. It closes with the mother’s renewed resolve, signaling her transformation from desperate petitioner to a woman ready to act. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76772,908,'Reading ease score: 76.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76772,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76772,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76773,520,'"Of the importance of religious opinions" by Jacques Necker is a treatise of moral and political philosophy written in the late 18th century. It contends that religious belief is indispensable to public order and private happiness, countering efforts to ground morality solely in law, reason, or social esteem. The work promises wide scope—from the social uses of worship and relations with sovereigns to arguments for God’s existence, tolerance, and Christian morality.  The opening of the treatise presents a translator’s note, a detailed table of contents, and an introduction in which the author, reflecting after public service, argues that administration, law, morality, and religion form one system whose harmony secures social prosperity. He laments fashionable indifference and sets himself between harsh intolerance and flippant unbelief, proposing to test whether a secular “moral catechism” can replace religion. Chapter I asserts that basing virtue on the supposed union of private and public interest fails amid real social inequalities, limited education, and strong passions; laws reach actions but not intentions, whereas religion uniquely addresses imagination, conscience, youth, and the afflicted, offering simple, binding commands and hope beyond the present. At the start of Chapter II, he argues that civil and penal laws and public opinion cannot control hidden or ambiguous wrongs; only conscience, grounded in God, can, and even judges need both statute and inward moral responsibility, while reputation and public rewards are narrow, fallible incentives beside religion’s universal, interior authority. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76773,908,'Reading ease score: 18.2 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76773,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76773,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76773,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76773,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76774,520,'The future of an illusion by Sigmund Freud is a psychoanalytic treatise written in the early 20th century. It examines religion as a collective illusion born from human wishes and childhood helplessness, and considers how civilization might sustain social order without sacred authority. Blending psychology, cultural critique, and philosophy, it argues for replacing religious foundations with rational, scientific understanding.  The opening of the treatise defines culture as both the human conquest of nature and the regulation of social relations, stressing that it rests on labor, coercion, and instinctual renunciation that provoke resistance. It then turns to the “psychical” supports of culture—prohibitions and privations, their partial internalization as the super-ego, class grievances, the narcotic pride of cultural ideals, and the compensations of art—culminating in religion as the most powerful device. Religion is presented as a projection of infantile helplessness and father-longing that humanizes nature, promises justice and an afterlife, and asserts authority without proof; these doctrines are labeled “illusions” grounded in wish-fulfilment rather than evidence. Anticipating objections that society would collapse without faith, the text counters that laws should be justified by social necessity, recasts religion as a universal obsessional neurosis with totemic roots, and urges “education to reality” and gradual reliance on reason and science, even while admitting the transition will be slow and contested. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76774,908,'Reading ease score: 45.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76774,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76774,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76774,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76774,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76775,520,'"Perte et gain :  histoire d''un converti" by John Henry Newman is a novel written in the mid-19th century. It follows an Oxford undergraduate, Charles Reding, whose friendships, campus life, and theological debates draw him into a searching journey from Anglicanism toward a Catholic understanding. Cast against the ferment of the Oxford Movement, the story blends university satire with earnest spiritual inquiry through characters like the quick-witted Sheffield and the ritual-enthusiast Bateman.  The opening of the narrative sets the frame: the author insists it is not a polemic but a fictional portrait of a mind’s progress, while the French translator’s preface situates the work amid the Oxford Movement and praises its depiction of England’s religious currents. The story then begins with Charles Reding, the sensitive son of an Anglican clergyman, educated at Eton and newly arrived at Oxford, where he befriends the brighter, more combative Sheffield. Their days include a visit with Bateman, a bachelier restoring a Gothic chapel, prompting lively talk about ritual forms—piscinas, tabernacles, candles—and whether such externals are meaningful or mere show, alongside banter about sermons, academic formalities, and Paley’s evidences. A chance meeting with the seasoned fellow Malcolm adds a wry, insider view of Oxford fashions and religious agitation, suggesting that movements wax and wane even as Charles’s inner questions quietly deepen. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76775,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loss_and_Gain https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loss_and_Gain',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76775,908,'Reading ease score: 68.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76775,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76775,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76775,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76776,520,'"Minor tactics of the chalk stream and kindred studies" by G. E. M. Skues is a treatise on fly-fishing written in the early 20th century. It argues for the intelligent use of wet-fly methods on English chalk streams as a deliberate complement to the established dry-fly tradition. Blending observation, entomology, and fieldcraft, it offers practical tactics, patterns, and scenarios to help trout and grayling anglers widen their options without offending dry-fly ethics.  The opening of this treatise sets out Skues’s purpose: to recover and modernize the wet-fly art for chalk streams, not to displace but to supplement Halfordian dry-fly practice. After a gracious second-edition note, he explains how personal encounters—fish taking waterlogged or sunken flies, bulging trout on nymphs, and early mentors’ accounts—pushed him from orthodoxy toward upstream wet-fly experiments. He describes why trout regularly feed below the surface, outlines the three stages of a rise (nymphs, duns, then sub-surface leftovers), and defends fishing stages one and three with wet or nymphal imitations. He then offers clear guidance on handling bulging fish, reading subtle under-water takes, coping with rough light and wind, and details effective dressings and materials (soft hackles, dubbed bodies, and a handful of key patterns such as Greenwell’s Glory, Tup’s Indispensable, and Rough Olive). Brief case studies show the methods at work in glassy glides, eddies, moonlit currents, and tricky swims, plus notes on nymph imitation and the value of spinner patterns during dun hatches. The section closes with compact observations on hovering and cruising trout, the “porpoise roll,” choosing flies by a trout’s position, and a cautionary anecdote about a famed, uncatchable bank-feeder finally taken by a sedge. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76776,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minor_Tactics_of_the_Chalk_Stream',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76776,908,'Reading ease score: 63.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76776,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76776,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76777,520,'"L''art de lire" by Émile Faguet is a literary essay and practical guide to reading written in the early 20th century. It sets out how to read not as a critic on duty but as a cultivated reader seeking the fullest pleasure and understanding. Faguet argues for slow, attentive reading and tailored methods for different kinds of works—philosophical, sentimental, and dramatic—so that readers think better, feel more truly, and see more clearly.  The opening of the book contrasts reading to learn or to judge with reading for enjoyment, and declares the author’s aim: to teach the art of pleasurable, intelligent reading. First comes a cardinal rule—always read slowly, distrust first impressions, avoid skimming—because slowness both deepens comprehension and immediately separates worthwhile books from the rest. For books of ideas, he recommends a continual back-and-forth comparison within the text to uncover an author’s governing notions, their growth and contradictions, illustrating with Plato, Montesquieu, Descartes, and La Rochefoucauld; he frames this as a courteous intellectual fencing match that sharpens the reader’s mind without dogmatism. For books of sentiment, he urges initial surrender to emotion, then a second phase of judgment grounded in real-life observation and self-analysis, with cautions about “exceptional” cases and a brisk portrait gallery of reader types (narrative-chasers, realists, idealists, poetry devotees, seekers of the exceptional, and classicists). Turning to drama, he defends reading plays as an appeal from the theater, and advises reading them as if staged—seeing entrances, groupings, and gestures—especially in Greek tragedy; a detailed example unpacks the physical action embedded in Racine’s Phèdre before the discussion moves toward Athalie. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76777,908,'Reading ease score: 64.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76777,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76777,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76777,704);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76777,687);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76778,520,'"Islam saharien :  chez ceux qui guettent (journal d''un témoin)" by Jean Pommerol is a nonfiction travel journal and ethnographic account written in the early 20th century. It explores Saharan Islam—especially the Sufi confraternities (zaouïas) and their political, social, and spiritual reach—through a composite but observed narrative of a traveler taken in by a powerful order. Guided by a dubious escort and nursed by the taleb Si-Kaddour, the narrator encounters the rituals, discipline, and discreet authority of the Djazerti. The result is both first-hand reportage and a warning about the mobilizing force of religious networks across North and Central Africa.  The opening of the book sets out an “Avertissement” asserting the factual basis of the narrative while admitting that names like Mozafrane and the Djazerti are composites, then argues that French conquest unintentionally catalyzed the dramatic growth and politicization of Sufi orders. It sketches the evolution from early soufi asceticism to wealthy, far-reaching confraternities funded by alms, linked by zaouïas, and capable of coordinated action—illustrated by a brief account of the Margueritte uprising. The narrative then shifts to a desert journey: the narrator breaks his leg, follows the distant call to prayer, and, despite fears of hostility to “Roumis,” is solemnly received into a grand zaouïa and placed under the care of Si-Kaddour and the servants. Convalescing, he experiences lavish hospitality, the silent daily visits of the white-robed saints, and intimate lessons where the taleb cites the Koran, tells the parable of the Three Barques, and outlines the strict rules for initiation and the binding obedience required of “Khouan.” These scenes prompt reflections on how small renunciations, ritual, and organization give the orders immense influence. The section closes with the narrator still confined to his room, observing and recording rather than roaming, aware he has yet to see the flow of pilgrims the place attracts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76778,908,'Reading ease score: 71.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76778,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76778,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76778,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76778,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76778,652);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58609,'fr.wikipedia','https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Pommerol');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76779,520,'Malle Gevallen: Een kluchtig verhaal by Hans Martin is a humorous novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a spirited trio—the unnamed narrator, Boy, and Bram—through boozy student pranks, flirtations, and rambles from The Hague to Leiden and Scheveningen. With a breezy, wisecracking voice, it lampoons pompous types, charts Boy’s tender pull toward Kitty, and revels in slapstick mishaps on land and sea.  The opening of the story frames everything as a playful fiction told in the first person, then briskly reveals outcomes (who marries whom) before rewinding to how the friends met. We see Boy’s cheeky schoolroom rebellion, a headlong dash to the director, and an escalating run of antics that brings Bram literally tumbling into their lives on the dunes, a chaotic bar scene with the perpetually soused Dirk, and a comic train episode where an officious passenger is outwitted. A long, anarchic night in Leiden follows: borrowing trousers for Dirk, wrecking rooms with eggs and butter, a collapsed lamp and gas scare, a stolen trough of dough, and Boy’s plunge into the Rapenburg, capped by a wary dawn and a failed attempt to get Dirk to a wedding. The pace then softens into club life at the Mafkolder—teas, teasing, and rivalry with a bragging “katjang”—as Kitty quietly checks on Boy’s character, and the pair finally confess mutual affection. The section closes as the friends travel to Enkhuizen to fetch Bram’s refitted boat, scrape its foul cabin clean, and push off at dusk into a mist-threatened Zuiderzee, with the narrator at the helm and the first chill of night setting in. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76779,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76779,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76779,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76780,520,'"A broken blossom,  vol. 2 of 3" by Florence Marryat is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in and around the small town of St. Pucelle, it follows Hilda Marsh, her guardian Mr. Lovett, his daughters Tessie and Ange, and the impoverished Baron de Nesselrode as domestic kindness, hidden vices, and romantic entanglements intersect. The return of Hilda’s former admirer, Cave Charteris, stirs old feelings and new tensions amid talk of gambling, social standing, and hope for better fortunes.  The opening of this volume finds Hilda visiting the Baron’s decayed château, where a broken Venetian glass, a tame wolf, and a dusty chapel with an organ reveal both faded grandeur and fragile pride. Hilda later secretly witnesses the Baron and Mr. Lovett gambling, receives a delicate Venetian vase from the Baron, and hears town gossip linking the flirtatious Miss Markham to a young spendthrift, Arthur Thrale. As Ange’s birthday approaches, Hilda secures silver earrings for her, while the household prepares for a mysterious “change” that proves to be the arrival of a paying guest—Cave Charteris—whose sudden appearance unsettles Hilda. A strained but civil dinner, plans for forest hunting with the Baron, and Hilda’s private resurgence of grief for her mother close this opening movement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76780,908,'Reading ease score: 74.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76780,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76780,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76780,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76781,520,'"A broken blossom,  vol. 3 of 3" by Florence Marryat is a novel written in the late 19th century. Told in the first person by Hilda Marsh, it blends romance, social tension, and questions of trust and independence as she navigates life with her indebted guardian in the French town of St. Pucelle. Key figures include the proud yet penitent Baron de Nesselrode, the volatile Cave Charteris, steadfast Tessie, impulsive Ange, and Hilda’s loyal friend Charlie Sandilands.  The opening of the novel follows Hilda as she firmly redefines her relationship with Charlie, seeks his pragmatic counsel on her mismanaged trust, and writes to Mr. Warrington to regain control of her income. She collides with household discontent—overhearing the cook’s scorn and learning from Charteris that Mr. Lovett is deeply in debt and has even borrowed in Hilda’s name—while parrying Charteris’s attempt to rekindle past sentiment. A tense evening walk leads to a fright with a wolfish sheep-dog and a rescue by Baron de Nesselrode, who then confides his fall from wealth through grief, gambling, and betrayal, revealing years of enforced austerity ahead; Hilda responds with compassion and practical hope. As they return, they encounter Ange walking with Charteris, and the section closes with a “black cloud” settling over the house—Lovett’s froideur, Tessie’s avoidance, and Charteris’s sulks—hinting at mounting strain and entanglements to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76781,908,'Reading ease score: 76.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76781,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76781,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76781,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76782,520,'"Bari, chien-loup" by James Oliver Curwood is a wilderness adventure novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Bari, a wolf-dog born to the blind she-wolf Louve-Grise and the dog Kazan, as he grows into the northern wilds, pulled between his wolf instincts and his dog nature. Encounters with predators, prey, storms, and humans shape a survival tale about identity, trust, and the thin line between the wild and the tame.  The opening of the novel traces Bari from birth in a fallen tree, through his first sunlight and moonlit nights, to early lessons in killing when Kazan brings a rabbit. A reckless tussle with a young owl sends him tumbling into a river; lost and terrified, he endures a thunderstorm, witnesses bear and moose at close range, and nearly starves crossing a burned forest before stealing a freshly killed grouse from an ermine. Regaining strength by catching young rabbits, he wanders into a trapline where the Métis trapper Pierre and his daughter Nepeese appear; Nepeese wounds him with a shot, but he hides and escapes. Nursed by anger and instinct, he later battles an old great owl and wins, gaining confidence as he limps on into the northern night, still a solitary wanderer. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76782,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baree,_Son_of_Kazan',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76782,908,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76782,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76782,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76782,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76783,520,'"Heart of New England by Abbie Farwell Brown" is a collection of lyric and narrative poetry written in the early 20th century. The book dwells on New England’s landscape and legacy, the Pilgrim and colonial past, homely gardens and family memory, folklore and ghostly legend, and a rising strain of civic and wartime patriotism. Its likely topic is the spirit of New England—its nature, history, and ideals—cast as a living inheritance for modern America.  The collection moves from salt-tinged coastal love songs and Pilgrim recollections to Hampton legends of pirates and haunted houses; from intimate scenes of grandmothers’ gardens, walls, paths, and birds to meditations on books, city smoke, and conscience. Nature pieces—pines, frost, tanager, mushrooms—mix with whimsical fairy lore, while character sketches and playful verses sit beside elegies and tributes. A central wartime suite turns resolute and compassionate, honoring sailors, soldiers, nurses, and the home front, and weighing “peace with a sword.” The book culminates in a dramatic ode to the Pilgrims that stages voyage, struggle, and achievement through choruses and psalm-like voices, binding local memory to a national calling of liberty, unity, and praise. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76783,908,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76783,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76783,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76784,520,'"The fair Mississippian" by Charles Egbert Craddock is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set on an isolated Mississippi River plantation, it follows Edward Desmond, a brilliant but newly impoverished scholar who becomes tutor to the wealthy widow Honoria Faurie’s three sons. The story promises class friction, wounded pride, and a possible attraction between tutor and mistress, threaded through with a local “haunting” and the social theatrics of neighboring planters.  The opening of the novel shows Desmond’s fall from promise after his father’s death and his reluctant arrival at Great Oaks, where Mr. Stanlett’s tactless chatter about Honoria’s fortune (tied to widowhood) and a parrot’s mocking song sharpen Desmond’s sense of humiliation. He meets the unexpectedly young and commanding Honoria, then lies awake to hear furtive footsteps on the stairs; Reginald explains the household’s ghostly legend. At breakfast Honoria’s birthday and Chub’s earnest “trading‑boat” gift reveal the family’s dynamics. Desmond asserts discipline, vetoing a holiday, choosing the library as a schoolroom, and quelling globe‑spinning and sulks; he spars with Reginald over the value of Greek and begins to win a measure of order while spending his nights reading and writing in solitude. As winter wears on, neighbors Colonel and Mrs. Kentopp arrive; Desmond even resists being summoned mid‑lessons, signaling the boundaries he intends to keep. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76784,908,'Reading ease score: 64.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76784,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76784,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76785,520,'"Cro-knitting :  The new art of worsted work : also crocheted lattice work" is an instructional craft manual written in the early 20th century. It introduces a hybrid method that combines knitting and crochet, alongside a distinctive crocheted lattice technique, and provides detailed, row-by-row directions. Projects range from garments and accessories to home linens, with an emphasis on specific threads, tools, and finishing methods.  The opening of Cro-knitting :  The new art of worsted work : also crocheted lattice work begins with recommended materials (mercerized cottons, macramé cord, silk-like threads, and metal yarns), followed by a foreword presenting Cro-Knitting as alternating knitted and crocheted rows using a crochet hook and matching needles. It carefully explains tools (including a knobbed crochet hook and lattice pins), handling of knitted versus crocheted rows, and core stitches (single, double, treble) plus signature patterns like Automobile and Cluster stitches and the lattice method. From there it launches directly into step-by-step patterns—jackets, scarves, bags, afghans, socks, and baby sets—each with precise cast-ons, increases/decreases, stitch sequences, borders, and trims (fringe, picots, frogs, embroidery), consistently advising use of the specified Bear Brand materials to achieve the illustrated results. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76785,908,'Reading ease score: 86.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76785,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76785,680);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76785,676);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76786,520,'"A summer in Skye, Volume 1 (of 2)" by Alexander Smith is a travelogue and reflective essay collection written in the mid-19th century. It traces a summer journey from Edinburgh through the Highlands and western lochs to the Isle of Skye, blending vivid nature writing with history, art, and social observation. Readers can expect lyrical landscapes, portraits of towns and people, and opinionated meditations on Scottish identity and culture.  The beginning of the book sets the narrator in heat-stricken Edinburgh, longing for escape and praising the restorative idleness of the Highlands while advocating light, simple travel. He sketches an expansive portrait of the city—its literature and critics, Scott’s outsized legacy, show-stopping beauty by day and night, the grandeur and squalor of the Old Town, intellectual pretensions (with barbed shots at Jeffrey), and the seasonal rhythms of art exhibitions and the General Assembly’s pageantry. The tone is essayistic and digressive, moving from civic pride and social satire to the spiritual spell of the past that saturates Edinburgh’s streets. The journey then unfolds: Stirling’s views and the Wallace Monument spark reflections on nationality; Doune and its castle; Callander, the Pass of Leny, Loch Achray, and the Trosachs to Loch Katrine; on to Inversneyd and Loch Lomond, the “Cobbler,” and the steep solitude of Glencroe; St Catherine’s and a humorous coachman; Inverary and Duniquoich; Loch Awe, Kilchurn Castle, and Ben Cruachan; and the bustle and rain of Oban. A swift run up the Caledonian route brings Fort William (with a visit to the famed distiller “Long John”), Loch Ness, and Inverness, capped by a sunset reverie on Culloden Moor. Finally, arrangements are made to reach Skye, and the section closes with a miserable pre-dawn coach ride to Dingwall. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76786,908,'Reading ease score: 63.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76786,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76786,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76786,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76787,520,'"A summer in Skye, Volume 2 (of 2)" by Alexander Smith is a travelogue written in the mid-19th century. It traces a reflective journey across the Isle of Skye, blending lyrical landscape description with portraits of island life, customs, and class relations among lairds, tacksmen, cotters, and fishermen. The narrator dwells on place, memory, and change, moving between scenic wonder and social observation.  The opening of this volume immerses the reader in Skye’s antiquated atmosphere, then sketches the paternal, clanlike household of Mr M’Ian—a tacksman who keeps rent-free cotters, dispenses porch‑door justice, and binds the community through old obligations—before contrasting him with “the Landlord,” a wealthy, India-hardened reformer who manages tenants directly, runs a “penal” crofting scheme on reclaimed “black land,” and oversees a plain but purposeful school. A storm and flood frame the narrator’s departure, leading to a vivid, stage-by-stage journey—Isle Oronsay, Broadford, Sconser, Sligachan, Portree, Skeabost’s island graveyard—with a robust defense of the smoky Highland hut against urban misery. At the Landlord’s, we see affectionate chaos of pets, Gaelic deputations, village visits, levées at turf walls, and the schoolroom’s earnest geography and sums, all revealing a strict yet benevolent social experiment. The section closes with a drive toward Dunvegan via Orbost: legends at the Fairy Bridge, clan feuds (Trompon and Eigg), the sight of Macleod’s Tables and Maidens, an incongruously modern house set in a haunting coastal landscape, and ruins that echo the clan’s dwindling grandeur. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76787,908,'Reading ease score: 64.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76787,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76787,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76788,520,'"Round the Horn before the mast" by Basil Lubbock is a maritime memoir written in the early 20th century. It follows a gentleman volunteer who ships before the mast on the four‑masted barque Royalshire to experience deep‑water life on a grain passage from San Francisco around Cape Horn toward Europe. The narrative dwells on the gritty work, seamanship, and shipboard culture of the great windjammers, painting vivid portraits of officers, crew, and ports. It promises realism, humor, and danger rather than romance.  The opening of this narrative finds the narrator in San Francisco after the Klondike, choosing the Royalshire, signing on, and pairing up with fellow recruit Don Henderson. He outfits like a common seaman and plunges into hard labor: unloading Japanese coal, scouring stringers and bilges, chipping and painting, wrestling wire moorings, and enduring rough fare—relieved by cricket matches and the Seamen’s Institute. The ship shifts to Oakland Creek and Port Costa to line the holds and load barley, while a suspicious Swedish sailmaker appears, a classic South Sea whaler is spotted, and the crew bends sail aloft in a stiff wind. There are swims in the Sacramento, a sandy-shore breakfast on a boat errand, and a grim episode when an apprentice from another ship drowns and the Royalshire’s “nipper” is nearly lost. After finishing cargo and returning to the bay, a mixed crew drifts aboard, the narrator briefly serves as steward, and the harbor erupts in celebration for returning troops as the ship is dressed overall. Before dawn, the men man the capstan, a tug takes hold, the anchor breaks out, and the Royalshire heads to sea. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76788,908,'Reading ease score: 75.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76788,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76788,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76789,520,'"Oration on Voltaire by Victor Hugo and Julius Moritzen" is a collection of an oration and critical essays compiled in the early 20th century. It presents a translated ceremonial address alongside an introduction and interpretive pieces that frame Voltaire’s life and influence. The book is best described as a literary-historical tribute and critical study, focusing on Voltaire’s fight against religious intolerance and judicial cruelty, and on his lasting role in shaping modern ideas of justice, tolerance, and peace.  The introduction hails progress as both evolution and revolt, praising Voltaire’s liberation of conscience and condemning priestly and political tyranny. The central oration, delivered at the centennial of Voltaire’s death, portrays him as an age-defining force who exposed infamous injustices like the Calas and La Barre cases, fought oppression with the pen, and joined compassion to reason, linking Gospel mercy with Enlightenment tolerance while denouncing war and calling for human concord. A biographical sketch then recounts his irreverent wit, the deathbed legends, and evidence that he died a steadfast skeptic, securing burial despite clerical resistance. The final section, drawing on Georg Brandes, places Voltaire in an international context: England’s free speech shaped his liberalism; high society and statesmen opened doors; his unique exchange with Frederick the Great enriched both ruler and writer; his histories of Charles XII and Peter the Great broadened his reach; and his correspondence with Russian rulers, including Catherine II, shows his pan-European influence. It closes with a striking allegory of humanity’s habit of persecuting its benefactors before erecting their statues. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76789,908,'Reading ease score: 58.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76789,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76789,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76789,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76790,520,'Kurimus :  Runoja by Yrjö Jylhä is a collection of lyric poems written in the late 1920s. The book explores inner turmoil, eros and guilt, death and fate, and the tension between artistic ideals and everyday reality, using folk motifs, biblical and mythic figures, and flashes of modern urban life to probe moral conflict and longing.  The poems unfold in four movements: from childhood visions and a “metamorphosis” into darker seas, to lullabies for a wayward heart, fatigue, exile, and the shattering of heroic dreams; then to sharp social satires of ideologies and literary cults; then to love lyrics and tales—tenderness edged with cruelty, saxophone-bright travel reveries, St. George saving a princess, a shared quest toward a “blue mountain,” dreams of spring, and visitations by Death; and finally to a confessional descent where jealousy and lust speak plainly. The last part gathers stark scenes of obsession and violence, pleas and prayers that mix blasphemy with yearning, a beast within that cannot be gentled, and images of neon-lit nights, damning letters, and sailors burned by the sun who never truly return. Together the sequence sketches a soul wrestling with desire and conscience, reaching for grace while circling a fatal whirlpool. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76790,908,'Reading ease score: 48.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76790,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76791,520,'"Euthanasia :  or, Medical treatment in aid of an easy death by William Munk" is a medical treatise from the Victorian era. It synthesizes clinical observation, ethical reflection, and practical bedside guidance to show how physicians and nurses can ease the final hours of the dying. The book argues that the act of dying is usually neither agonizing nor fearful, and urges the medical profession to study and practice an “easy death” as part of its duty. Its likely topic is the phenomena, modes, and clinical management of dying, aimed at securing a calm, pain‑relieved, and dignified end.  The book is organized into three parts: first, it examines common experiences near death—diminishing pain perception, patterns of delirium, the “lightening before death,” and the persistence of hearing—countering the myth of the “death struggle.” Next, it outlines the main modes of dying by failure of the heart (syncope or asthenia), lungs (asphyxia), or brain (coma or exhaustion), with the classic bedside signs such as the facies Hippocratica. Finally, it gives detailed, practical care: avoid force‑feeding; prefer milk, cream, eggs, and farinacea; use wine or brandy judiciously as stimulants; offer ice for thirst; stop fluids when swallowing fails. Opium (ideally as morphia) is the chief remedy for pain and the dreadful sinking at the chest, while ether, ammonia, and occasional turpentine help dyspnea and bronchial clogging; drugs should be few and purpose‑driven. Care of environment—fresh cool air, adequate light, quiet ordinary voices (no whispering), few attendants—plus posture and light coverings are emphasized, with specific measures for stertor, hiccup, and bladder distention. The closing guidance covers special scenarios (heart, lung, brain failure) and notes that in death from old age, gentle nursing usually suffices, as nature itself provides the perfect euthanasia. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76791,908,'Reading ease score: 50.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76791,681);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76791,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76791,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76792,520,'"Hurlothrumbo: or, The super-natural" by Samuel Johnson is a satirical play written in the early 18th century. It is a delirious burlesque of gallantry, politics, and metaphysics, told in bombastic speeches, songs, and visions. The story orbits a lovestruck King, the extravagant champion Hurlothrumbo, the steadfast Theorbeo, the scheming Darony and Urlandenny, and the mercurial Lord Flame, as courtly passion collides with rebellion and celestial pageantry.  The opening of the play presents mock-heroic dedications and a prologue that exalts unfettered imagination, then plunges into a court where a King pines for the Spanish princess Cademore while conspirators quietly convert their estates into war chests. Visionary “Solitaries” warn of danger; Hurlothrumbo boasts of slaying a lion; and Lord Flame raves in jealous love. As Theorbeo pledges loyalty, Darony and Urlandenny spark a nocturnal uprising, enlist a Dutch general, and seize the city, leading to the King’s imprisonment and Cademore’s distress. Theorbeo engineers the King’s escape by trading clothes, while Dologodelmo laments Hurlothrumbo’s betrayal, and allegorical figures like Genius and Death stalk the battlefield. A forced wedding is disrupted, the King rallies his smaller force in a frenzy of mock-epic imagery, and victory swings his way; the court scenes that follow turn toward petitions and the testing of mercy, setting up the play’s blend of satire, spectacle, and sudden clemency. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76792,908,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76792,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76792,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76792,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76793,520,'"Marcela, o ¿a cuál de los tres? : Comedia original en tres actos" by Don Manuel Bretón de los Herreros is a comedic play written in the early 19th century. It’s a sparkling social satire set in Madrid, where the witty young widow Marcela is courted by three very different men—an ardent but shy poet (Don Amadeo), a boastful artillery captain (Don Martín), and a foppish dandy (Don Agapito)—while her loquacious uncle and sharp-tongued maid complicate the game. The likely focus is a battle of manners, ego, and sincerity as Marcela weighs charm, substance, and freedom in choosing “which of the three.”  The opening of the play sets the tone with rapid-fire banter and comic contrasts inside Marcela’s home. Don Timoteo bickers with the maid over his treasured nativity figures, while Don Agapito flatters Marcela with sweets and airs; Don Amadeo arrives to pine in verse and begs Juliana’s help; and Don Martín bursts in, swaggering and talkative. After a garden stroll and a shared meal, Agapito tries to extract a “te quiero,” but Marcela cleverly sends him away for confections and privately coaxes Amadeo’s feelings from a timid letrilla, only for Martín to interrupt with a loud declaration that is itself cut short by the household sensation: the cat Clitemnestra has given birth. Soon after, Amadeo and Martín agree to compete openly for Marcela and to thwart Agapito. At the start of the third act, Timoteo urges Marcela to remarry (hinting at Martín), and Marcela receives three written proposals: Agapito’s syrupy letter, Amadeo’s humble sonnet, and Martín’s bluntly comic plea; undecided, she summons them all to return later for her answer. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76793,908,'Reading ease score: 61.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76793,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76793,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76793,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76794,520,'"Lalla Rookh :  An Oriental romance" by Thomas Moore is a narrative poem written in the early 19th century. It frames a sequence of romantic, exotic tales within the journey of Princess Lalla Rookh to meet her betrothed, accompanied by a young Kashmiri minstrel, Feramorz, under the watchful eye of the censorious courtier Fadladeen. The work blends love, illusion, zeal, and power against a richly imagined Mughal–Persian backdrop.  The opening of the work sets Lalla Rookh’s lavish departure from Delhi for Cashmere, then introduces Feramorz, who begins the tale “The Veiled Prophet of Khorassan.” In that story, the charismatic impostor Mokanna courts followers with promises of freedom; the idealistic youth Azim joins him, while Zelica—Azim’s former beloved, driven half-mad by rumors of his death—has been ensnared as the Prophet’s priestess and bound by a terrible oath. Forced to become a temptress for Mokanna’s designs, she recoils at his blasphemy, and when he lifts his veil she collapses in horror. Returning to the frame, the Princess hurries past illuminations to hear more; the tale resumes with Azim wandering a sumptuous haram, resisting seductive pageantry as he thinks of Zelica, until one trembling, unveiled nymph remains before him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76794,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lalla_Rookh',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76794,908,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76794,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76794,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76795,520,'The origin and development of the atomic theory by Maynard Shipley is a scientific publication and historical account written in the early 20th century. The book concisely traces how ideas about atoms arose, changed, and matured—from ancient philosophical speculations to modern scientific theories—showing how the concept of matter’s discreteness evolved into the foundation of chemistry and physics.  Shipley begins with the Pythagoreans, Philolaus, and related ideas from India, highlighting number, geometry, and the five regular solids as early ways to picture particles. He then presents Leucippus and Democritus: atoms and void, causal necessity, subjective sense qualities, and the role of shape, size, and arrangement; along the way he contrasts them with the Eleatics’ denial of motion and Anaxagoras’ “seeds.” The narrative turns to Epicurus and Lucretius, covering equal falling speeds in the void, the swerve debate, many worlds, and a polemic against superstition and divine design. Democritus’ “soul atoms,” effluences, and theories of color and taste are explained alongside Aristotle’s critiques. The closing chapter follows post-classical atomism through Descartes and Gassendi to Dalton’s laws of definite and multiple proportions, clarifying early errors about formulas, and connects these to modern insights—electrons, nuclei, isotopes, and atomic number—showing how an ancient idea became the quantitative science of matter. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76795,908,'Reading ease score: 42.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76795,655);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76795,667);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76795,668);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76796,520,'"A Silent Witness" by R. Austin Freeman is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows young doctor Humphrey Jardine as he stumbles into a baffling mystery in Hampstead—first a vanished corpse and then a calculated attempt on his own life—before the renowned medical jurist Dr. John Thorndyke is drawn in. Expect an intricate, scientifically grounded investigation involving forensic clues, a strange reliquary, and unsettling encounters in London’s lanes and lodgings.  The opening of the novel finds Jardine discovering, on a rainy midnight walk through Millfield Lane, what appears to be the body of an elderly clergyman—only for it to vanish before he can return with the police. Next day he uncovers a bloodstain on a fence, footprint traces into Ken Wood, and a small octagonal gold reliquary marked with initials, but the authorities are sceptical. Between hospital duties and a chance meeting with an art student named Sylvia, he takes a temporary post with Dr. Batson, witnesses the certification and swift cremation of a “heart case” named Septimus Maddock, and meets Maddock’s intense landlady, Mrs. Letitia Samway. Soon after, Jardine is lured by a false emergency to a shuttered mineral-water works, trapped in a sealed cellar, and nearly asphyxiated by carbonic acid gas—surviving only by improvising an air hole in the door—setting the stage for the larger mystery to unfold. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76796,908,'Reading ease score: 67.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76796,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76796,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76796,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76797,520,'"Etsijäin seura" by G. Lowes Dickinson is a political-philosophical dialogue written in the early 20th century. It presents a fictional club of “seekers” whose members—public men, scientists, and artists—debate the nature of society and the state. Key voices include Lord Cantilupe the Tory traditionalist, Alfred Remenham the eloquent Liberal, Reuben Mendoza the hard-headed Conservative, and George Allison the pragmatic Socialist, each setting out a personal credo. The likely topic is a searching, idea-driven clash over hierarchy, democracy, free trade, empire, and socialism, staged as a civil yet pointed symposium.  The opening of this work introduces the club, the host-narrator’s country-house setting, and the device of “personal confessions” when Cantilupe arrives without a paper. Cantilupe defends inherited hierarchy, the gentleman-gentry state, skepticism of democracy and free trade, and a rooted rural order, explaining his retreat from politics. Remenham answers with a confident liberal credo—trust in popular sovereignty and change, institutions that grow with social forces, and free trade as nature’s exchange, culminating in a cosmopolitan “parliament of man.” Mendoza replies with sardonic realism, questioning pure freedom, praising cautious, empirical governance, prioritizing national strength, and foreseeing imperial federation rather than universal peace, before calling a reflective truce. The spell is broken when Allison begins a brisk socialist case for gradual, technocratic transformation via taxation, public ownership, and expert administration, extending to science, art, and religion under state guidance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76797,908,'Reading ease score: 31.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76797,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76797,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76797,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76797,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76798,520,'"Tulia y.m. kuvauksia" by Iivo Härkönen is a collection of literary sketches and stories written in the early 20th century. The work paints intimate, folkloric portraits of Karelian village life—its rites of passage, ancestral memory, hard work, and song—through vivid scenes and emblematic figures. Central vignettes follow Palakia from birth and courtship to marriage, honor village singers and blacksmiths, and celebrate runo traditions that bind a community to its past and to nature.  The opening of the collection moves from a nightscape of scattered fires that symbolically trace a human life—from birth sauna to wedding bonfires and the final funeral candle—to a meditative walk in a Karelian grave grove where the whispering spruces awaken voices of the ancestors. It then settles into the tale of Palakia: her hard-won christening, upbringing under the song-rich guidance of Ontro-vaari, learning the forest’s language as a cowherd, a near-loss in the woods, and a tender courtship with Niemen Iivana that leads to vibrant village weddings and a quietly radiant married life. A forge scene follows, where a blacksmith’s monologue turns the paja into a “temple of work,” extolling fire, patience, and endurance. Finally, a runo singer, Äimäjärven Iivana, dreams of a hill becoming a chorus of kantele, is invited to a grand festival, and journeys with fellow singers through Sortavala and Viipuri to Helsinki, where their epic songs and women’s laments move audiences in a national celebration of folk music. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76798,908,'Reading ease score: 46.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76798,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76799,520,'"A girl''s life eighty years ago :  Selections from the letters of Eliza…." by Eliza Southgate Bowne is a collection of letters written in the late 19th century. The volume gathers the spirited correspondence of a New England girl coming of age at the turn of the nineteenth century, tracing her education, family ties, travels, social whirl, and courtship. An editor’s framing introduction situates her life and underscores the cultural value of letter-writing, while portraits and notes enrich the social backdrop.  The opening of the collection provides an editorial portrait of Eliza’s family origins in Scarborough, Maine; her schooling near Boston; her bright debut into society; her marriage to Walter Bowne; and her early death after a southern voyage, presented as a case for the vividness of letters. It then shifts to her earliest surviving letters from boarding school, where she reports crowded sleeping quarters, lessons in arithmetic and geometry, the prospect of French and dancing, and housework routines, all while appealing to her parents for more study and supplies. Subsequent notes from Boston and home mix theater and assembly-going with requests for bonnets, wigs, and gowns, news of siblings’ illnesses, and affectionate household management. The correspondence also starts to show her thoughtful voice—critiquing a severe teacher, defending her reputation, and debating with a cousin about women’s education, love, marriage, and social expectations—against a lively backdrop of visits, partners at balls, and encounters with prominent New England families. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76799,908,'Reading ease score: 68.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76799,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76799,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76799,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76800,520,'"Bases full!" by Ralph Henry Barbour is a young adult sports novel written in the early 20th century. Set at the prep school of Wyndham, it follows three friends—Clif Bingham, Tom Kemble, and the wheelchair-using Loring Deane—through a season that pivots from a fierce hockey rivalry with Wolcott to the trials of making the baseball team. The focus is on teamwork, perseverance, and school spirit, with coaches, tryouts, and friendships shaping the boys’ fortunes on and off the field.  The opening of the novel plunges into a tied hockey finale against Wolcott, where substitute wing Clif is sent in, shadows the star Houston, and scrambles in the winning goal. It then introduces the “Triumvirate”—Clif, brash Tom, and bright, resilient Loring (assisted by his dignified attendant, Wattles)—and shifts to early baseball preparations: Coach Connover and Captain Hurry Leland set standards, a tough schedule looms, and indoor drills give way to chilly outdoor work. A second team forms under the sharp-eyed “Tusks” Wadleigh as Clif and Tom battle for spots, struggle with batting form, and learn fundamentals; a quiet scene with Clif’s visiting father and a glimpse of a Mr. Cooper add texture. Tom later confides his absent-father past, and Loring rallies the trio with a “work and will” pact to will their way onto the team, as the first nine splits its first games and the boys’ baseball quest truly begins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76800,908,'Reading ease score: 76.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76800,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76800,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76800,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76801,520,'"An atlas of gas poisoning by Great Britain. Medical Research Committee" is a scientific medical atlas produced in the World War I era. It presents official, instructional illustrations and notes for medical officers on the effects of chemical warfare agents, focusing on phosgene and mustard gas. The likely topic is the pathology, clinical presentation, and practical implications of gas injuries to the lungs, skin, airways, and eyes.  The book explains that phosgene, a pulmonary irritant, causes immediate respiratory discomfort followed by delayed but rapidly progressive lung oedema, alveolar rupture, vascular congestion, and small-vessel thrombosis, leading to “blue” or “pallid” asphyxia and early death in severe cases; brief case notes and a lung micrograph demonstrate these changes, with mention of oxygen and venesection as supportive measures. Mustard gas, a vesicant, acts with delayed onset, producing intense conjunctivitis, diffuse skin erythema, blistering, and later brown staining, with particular vulnerability of moist skin areas and the perineum; in the airways it causes sloughing of tracheal and bronchial mucosa, secondary infection, and septic broncho‑pneumonia, while lung sections show bronchiolar necrosis and peribronchial haemorrhage rather than generalised oedema. The atlas also stages ocular burns from acute damage to resolution, noting risks of corneal ulceration and outlining supportive care (early atropine and cleansing, later astringents). Throughout, concise plate descriptions, case sketches, and histology highlight the distinct mechanisms, timelines, complications, and recovery patterns of these two agents. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76801,908,'Reading ease score: 50.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76801,681);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76801,682);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76801,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76802,520,'"O. Henry Memorial Award prize stories of 1927" by Society of Arts and Sciences et al. is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The volume assembles prize-selected American magazine fiction with an editorial introduction that explains the judging process and spotlights trends and standouts. Expect a broad mix of realist, urban, war, folk, and regional tales—including pieces like The Killers and The Scarlet Woman—alongside commentary that frames their themes and craft.  The opening of the anthology presents acknowledgments, a contents list, and Blanche Colton Williams’s introduction detailing the judges, how hundreds of stories were narrowed to the final fifteen, and which entries won top honors (Child of God first, The Killers second, The Scarlet Woman as best short short). Williams surveys themes—especially depictions of Black life, terse realism, and vivid settings—and supplies extensive ranked lists of notable stories and magazines. The first selection then begins: in Child of God, Willie Malone, a Black man condemned for killing a white landowner after a dispute over hogs, faces his hanging with calm faith, friendly banter with the jailer, and a desire to make a final speech; after the trap drops, he imagines a lavish heavenly journey (Gabriel’s trumpet, St. Peter, Little David’s harp, a kindly scarred angel) and tells the Great Lord God he was denied his speech, whereupon he’s sent back to the jail to deliver it—unseen as officials settle paperwork and the scene cuts off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76802,908,'Reading ease score: 79.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76802,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76802,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76803,520,'"Regeneration: A Reply to Max Nordau" by A. Egmont Hake is a polemical work of cultural criticism written in the late 19th century. It rebuts Max Nordau’s Degeneration, arguing that modern art, literature, and music are not pathological signs but expressions of renewal, imagination, and ethical striving. The treatise challenges the misuse of “scientific” diagnosis in aesthetics, defends mysticism and symbolism, and situates cultural change within social realities like poverty, militarism, and press sensationalism.  The opening of the work sets the stage with Nicholas Murray Butler’s introduction, which dismantles Nordau’s melodramatic attack on modern culture and his credulous use of alienist “science,” urging fair standards and reminding readers of the steady moral and intellectual gains among “the plain people.” Hake then begins by interrogating the critic himself: he shows how judgments of an era are distorted by specialization and bias, and he reads Nordau through lenses of German deference to authority, anti-French sentiment, Jewish free‑thinker pragmatism, and “scientific superstition.” In the next section he contests Nordau’s claim that only elites are “degenerating,” noting that masses and classes mirror each other, that the real corruptor is systemic misery (especially poverty), and that citing eccentric fashions, beards, or décor as proofs of decline is absurd; unrest, he argues, is a sign of coming renewal, not decay. He then defends mysticism, imagination, and symbolic art as sane and necessary to human feeling, upholds the legitimacy of pre‑Raphaelite aims (while separating them from camp followers), corrects Nordau’s misreadings (e.g., of Millais and Holman Hunt), and highlights the limits of materialist science and the emotive power of music and visual art to convey meaning beyond strict logic. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76803,908,'Reading ease score: 39.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76803,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76803,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76803,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76804,520,'"Wanted—? by Eugene Cunningham" is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. The tale follows a young Texas Ranger known as Ware’s Kid as he hunts the suspected killer of a ranch partner in the border country, blending pursuit, frontier justice, and moral ambiguity against a stark desert backdrop.  The story opens with Ware’s Kid in Dallas, where a barroom dustup proves his mettle before he teams with deputy Bos’ Johnson to interrupt a Sam Bass train robbery at Mesquite. Wounded in the fight, the Ranger discovers Johnson is actually Dell Spreen, the man accused of murdering Eph Carson; yet Spreen saves his life and swears he’s innocent. Reconstructing the ambush at El Castillo, the Ranger realizes the killer had to be a much taller man. He delivers Spreen to Austin for protection and returns to the O-Bar country, where an unseen rifleman tries to kill him. At the ranch he meets grim owner Simeon Rutter and Rutter’s melancholy daughter; together he revisits the murder site and finds a distinctive knife. While camping at Hueco Tanks, Apaches attack; fleeing under moonlight, Rutter is mortally wounded and confesses he murdered Carson for the money and had tried to bushwhack the Ranger. Ware’s Kid secures the confession, resolves to clear Spreen officially, and shields the daughter from public disgrace, choosing compassion over spectacle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76804,908,'Reading ease score: 80.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76804,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76804,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76804,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76804,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76805,520,'"Life of George Washington, volume 2 of 5" by Washington Irving is a historical biography written in the mid-19th century. This volume centers on Washington’s early leadership of the Continental Army, charting the siege of Boston, the fraught Canadian venture, and the opening New York–New Jersey campaigns. It highlights battlefield decisions, supply and discipline challenges, and vivid portraits of both American and British commanders, revealing how Washington forged an army under pressure.  The opening of the volume follows Washington’s arrival at Cambridge to take command, his survey of British leaders (Howe, Clinton, Burgoyne), and a stark contrast between well-ordered British lines and a raw, sprawling American force short on men, engineers, and supplies. Irving sketches the camp’s personalities and organization—Putnam’s energy, Greene’s promise, Gates’s role, Lee’s harsh discipline and irreverence, and Washington’s close reliance on Joseph Reed—while describing reforms in logistics and fortifications and the arrival of frontier riflemen under Daniel Morgan. Washington refuses to scatter his army along the coast, articulates a clear policy for defending the whole, and, amid efforts to provoke a British sortie at Boston, grapples with a near-ruinous powder shortage and asserts the dignity of the patriot cause in a firm exchange with General Gage over prisoner treatment. Parallel chapters trace turmoil on the northern frontier—Allen and Arnold’s rivalry after Ticonderoga, Congress’s legitimizing steps, Schuyler and Montgomery’s preparations, Indian diplomacy at Cambridge, and the conception of a bold overland thrust toward Quebec—culminating in Schuyler’s small force pushing to the Isle aux Noix and Washington’s unsuccessful attempt to draw the British out by seizing a forward hill near Charlestown Neck. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76805,908,'Reading ease score: 52.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76805,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76805,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76805,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76805,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76806,520,'"The law of copyright by William Wordsworth" is a short open letter and pamphlet on copyright law written in the early Victorian era. It advocates reform of literary property, supporting a parliamentary effort to extend authors’ rights and arguing that writers hold an enduring property interest in their works.  An editor’s note frames the piece as a newspaper letter backing Serjeant Talfourd’s bill and explains its later rediscovery. The main text is a dignified appeal from Rydal Mount: the poet declines to organize a petition, believing Parliament should recognize the obvious justice of the cause, but publicly declares firm support for longer protection. He criticizes the opposition from printers and publishers, asserts that common law upholds an author’s perpetual property, and rejects comparisons between literature and patentable inventions. Speaking for the whole class of writers—and mindful of heirs—he urges restoration of their rights and closes with confidence that justice will ultimately prevail and gratitude to those advancing the reform. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76806,908,'Reading ease score: 43.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76806,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76806,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76806,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76806,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76807,520,'"Another year with Denise and Ned Toodles" by Gabrielle E. Jackson is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. It follows imaginative Denise Lombard, her bright pony Ned Toodles, and new neighbor Hart Murray through a year of gentle, humorous adventures filled with pets, river outings, and family warmth. The tone is wholesome and lightly didactic, centering on kindness, responsibility, and the joys of animal companionship.  The beginning of the novel shows Denise daydreaming on a spring day, mimicking a wood-thrush and chatting to her pony before rescuing a muddy, howling child whose muddled name turns out to be Mabel Lilly Taintit. Denise celebrates her old goat Tan’s “birthday,” then meets Hart Murray, who becomes her fast friend; their play with the pets leads to Ned’s notorious prank of dumping Hart in a cow yard. We see Denise’s “sunset hour” with her wise mother, including a lesson in courtesy about postponing plans, followed by the cheerful christening and launch of Hart’s cedar rowboat, the River Kelpie. Pokey arrives for summer, a circus comes to town, and Ned’s high spirits carry the girls right into the parade before the family sets out together to see the show. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76807,908,'Reading ease score: 71.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76807,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76807,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76807,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76808,520,'"A sailor''s life under four sovereigns, Volume 1 (of 3)" by Sir Henry Keppel is a naval memoir written in the late 19th century. It recounts the author’s early life and long Royal Navy career, blending lively anecdote with first-hand glimpses of global cruising, naval culture, and political events. Expect portraits of ships, shipmates, and admirals; scenes from Madeira to Rio, the West Indies, Mexico, and back; and encounters with figures like Lord Cochrane amid Brazilian independence. The tone is brisk, humorous, and observant, with an eye for both seamanship and society.  The opening of the memoir traces Keppel from a perilous infancy and mischievous schooldays in Norfolk to the Royal Naval College and his first commission. He sketches a Whig-tinged family circle at Holkham, processions for Sir Francis Burdett, a tour to Newstead with the Duke of Sussex, Nelson connections, and the rituals and rough fun of cadet life before joining HMS Tweed. The narrative then shifts to sea: voyages to Madeira, Rio, Bahia, and Pernambuco during Brazil’s upheavals, a meeting with Lord Cochrane, and the dramatic refuge of a fleeing Pernambuco leader on board. Further chapters cover River Plate calls and light-hearted midshipmen exploits, a winter run to Halifax with a bishop, West India cruising, Tampico and Vera Cruz (including an alligator episode), Havana, Port Royal, a captured slaver, and an inland visit to Xalapa. It closes this opening stretch with the Tweed’s 1827 recommission under Lord John Churchill, a near-miss with the Navarino campaign, and a fresh outward passage via Madeira and the Cape Verdes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76808,908,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76808,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76808,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76808,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76809,520,'"A sailor''s life under four sovereigns, Volume 2 (of 3)" by Sir Henry Keppel is a naval memoir written in the late 19th century. It presents first-hand campaigning, travel, and diary-like observations from a senior Royal Navy officer, with a strong focus on anti-piracy operations in Borneo and later postings across the globe. Expect riverine warfare, alliances with local leaders such as Rajah Brooke, vivid shipboard life, and social vignettes from ports and drawing rooms alike.  The opening of the volume plunges into Keppel’s 1844 Sarawak campaigns with HMS Dido and the steamer Phlegethon: a swift assault on Patusen’s forts, the destruction of pirate strongholds, and a pursuit upriver that topples Seriff Muller’s base. A rash encounter near a Dyak hill-village costs the life of the energetic First Lieutenant Wade, and a brutal mêlée at Karangan brings heavy losses, including the renowned Patingi Ali and Mr. Steward, before the position is carried; throughout, civilians are spared and fugitives aided, while Seriff Sahib is driven into flight. The narrative then shifts to the homeward voyage—storm drama off the Cape, a comic ruse to visit his wife before orders, and paying off the Dido—before settling into dated diary entries of peacetime: publishing the Borneo expedition, levees, hunting and races, studying steam at Woolwich, and lobbying for British footholds such as Labuan. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76809,908,'Reading ease score: 71.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76809,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76809,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76809,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76809,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76810,520,'"A sailor''s life under four sovereigns, Volume 3 (of 3)" by Sir Henry Keppel is a naval memoir written in the late 19th century. This concluding volume follows Keppel’s later career across Asia and Africa—combat on China’s rivers, visits to Sarawak, anti-slavery patrols off East Africa, big-game interludes, and service at Court—told in brisk, anecdotal entries that blend operations, travel, and high society.  The opening of the volume plunges into Keppel’s firsthand account of the Fatshan Creek action, where his boat is sunk under heavy fire before a renewed assault scatters and captures most of a Chinese junk fleet; he includes a captured proclamation from Admiral Yeh and memorializes fallen and wounded comrades. The narrative then shifts into journal-like notes: a court-martial after the loss of Raleigh, reassignment and movements on the Canton River, a detour to Sarawak with Brooke’s circle and jungle excursions, and onward travel through Singapore and India amid news of honors. Returning to England, Keppel records a whirl of hunting and society, a deft recovery of a stolen officer’s watch, and his first turns as Groom-in-Waiting at Osborne and Windsor with lively court vignettes. He next takes the Cape command in HMS Forte, carries Sir George Grey via Madeira and Rio, shifts to HMS Brisk for an East African cruise that includes edging into Delagoa Bay, a moonlit turtle foray at Europa Island, the seizure of the slaver Manuela, hippopotamus shooting near Zanzibar, and a return to Mauritius to rehoist his flag and stage a mock landing operation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76810,908,'Reading ease score: 70.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76810,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76810,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76810,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76810,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76811,520,'"Crash dive by Claude C. Vickrey" is a naval adventure short story written in the late 1920s. It portrays a submarine training exercise that turns into a perilous emergency, focusing on seamanship, technical failure, and the crew’s ingenuity under extreme pressure.  A young submarine officer narrates his first crash dive, where a cascading series of small errors culminates in the chief forgetting to shut the main induction valve. Flooding drives the boat to the bottom in mud at about one hundred thirty feet with the bow steeply down, trapping the crew and threatening them with dwindling air and chlorine gas from compromised batteries. Realizing they cannot pump out the water, the officers gamble on forcing the stern to the surface: they blow out fuel, oil, and fresh water, shift every movable weight forward, and work hand pumps in darkness as morale frays. After grueling hours they heel the submarine to roughly seventy-eight degrees, chisel through the exposed stern plating, and raise a makeshift distress flag. A Coast Guard destroyer spots the signal and rescues the exhausted men, capping the ordeal with the captain’s dry reply to a command query: “Position Vertical!” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76811,908,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76811,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76811,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76811,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76812,520,'"Fighting for Fortune; or, Making a Place for Himself" by Roy Franklin is a juvenile adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set around Lake Seneca, it follows determined youth Dean Mercer as he breaks from a law apprenticeship to launch a rival steamboat line with the backing of Judge Oglesby, while facing sabotage and scheming from entrenched interests. Allies like the salty Jack Carboy aid him, as bullies Tim Downey and Rodney Darringford plot theft, fraud, and arson; a parallel thread involves Dean helping Marcus Ellison in the fight to clear Marcus’s father of a wrongful charge.  The opening of the story shows Dean quitting the musty law office, rescuing newcomer Marcus from a beating, and accepting two critical errands: safeguarding papers and money to aid Marcus’s father, and carrying an $8,000 check to pay for the new steamer, the Spray. After Tim Downey overhears these plans, he alerts Rodney and Colonel Darringford, the Warrior sails early, and Dean and Jack chase it by stage—surviving a crash—then reboard at Landlock. In Springfield, a con man posing as the builder tricks Dean out of the check, which Rodney later cashes by impersonating him; meanwhile Tim spies through a secret stateroom panel, intercepts Marcus and his wallet, and sets an arson scheme in motion. By morning, the Spray still stands but the money is gone, and Dean, visiting Marcus’s home, learns the boy never returned—leaving the new venture and Marcus’s family in sudden peril. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76812,908,'Reading ease score: 79.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76812,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76812,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76812,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76812,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76813,520,'"The colonel''s daughter: or, Winning his spurs" by Charles King is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set on the Arizona frontier, it entwines military life and romance, centering on adjutant John Truscott, impulsive young lieutenant Arthur Glenham, and Grace Pelham, the colonel’s daughter, amid garrison routines, social maneuvering, and rising Apache unrest. Expect brisk soldierly realism, sharp drawing-room tensions, and a quietly forming love triangle pressed by the threat of war.  The opening of the novel paints Camp Sandy in blistering heat, introducing the disciplined, reserved Truscott; the warm-hearted, wealthy Glenham; and the talkative, factional garrison community awaiting the arrival of Colonel Pelham’s wife and the much-admired Grace. Gossip swirls about Grace and Glenham, while Truscott’s integrity, past clashes with meddling superiors, and quiet generosity are established when he sacrifices his own trip so Glenham can attend the Prescott festivities. At the Prescott ball, Grace’s beauty captivates all, her mother manages access, and local rivalries flare, even as Truscott is delayed by urgent duty. During the night, alarms spread that the Tonto Apaches have left the reservation; bugles sound, officers are summoned, and Glenham, having just been gently refused by Grace, is swept toward field service. In parallel, Truscott rides alone through the mountains, discovers the murdered mail-carrier and a ranch in flames, and pushes on, signaling the outbreak that will drive the story from ballroom to battlefield. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76813,908,'Reading ease score: 68.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76813,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76813,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76813,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76813,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76814,520,'"Ghosts in the Great War, and true tales of haunted houses : Thrilling…." by S. Louis Giraud is a collection of first-person ghost accounts written in the early 20th century. Drawn from readers of the Daily News, it gathers wartime apparitions, premonitions, and domestic hauntings, framed as “true” experiences rather than folklore. The tone is investigative rather than sensational, balancing believers’ testimonies with skeptical letters and editor’s notes about method and selection.  The opening of the collection sets out its newspaper origins: a public call for sober, first-hand reports, prizes for publishable accounts, and an editorial promise to classify, trim excess, and avoid lurid fabrications, while not claiming to prove or disprove ghosts. Several letters argue against superstition and offer psychological or scientific explanations, yet the main section, “Ghosts in the Great War,” quickly unfolds dozens of brief, vivid vignettes—soldiers guided from danger by dead comrades, loved ones appearing at the hour of death, mothers and fiancées sensing wounds or peril, strange battlefield lights and vanishing figures, and uncanny warnings that avert disaster. These tales stress visions that coincide with verifiable events, “instinct” that saves lives, and meaningful coincidences across distance. The excerpt then shifts to “True Tales of Haunted Houses,” beginning with an oppressive hotel presence that induces paralyzing dread, a recurring apparition of a tormented nun in a former monastic house, a farm rumored to be cursed and plagued by knocks and a grim old woman, a “thimble-tapping” matron who haunts a city bedroom, and a minister’s family beset by varied rural spectres. It closes mid-anecdote as a narrator, fetching a book in darkness, senses a presence on the stairs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76814,908,'Reading ease score: 72.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76814,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76814,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76814,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76814,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76815,520,'"A devil of a fellow, and The yellow cat by Wilbur Daniel Steele" is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. Set on Cape Cod and at sea, the book probes love, guilt, and superstition as ordinary people are tested by passion, fear, and the uncanny.  In “A Devil of a Fellow,” the swaggering fisherman Tony Va Di returns to his Cape town after months presumed dead to find his old flame, Mamie, hastily married to an aging shopkeeper who has just drowned. Through a night of labor, town gossip, and his own jealousy, Tony is forced into tenderness; the baby Mamie bears plainly favors him, and his bravado softens into a grudging acceptance of love and responsibility. “The Yellow Cat” follows a narrator visiting an abandoned schooner brought in by his shaken friend McCord, who blames eerie happenings on a silent yellow cat. A hidden log hints at crew paranoia about a Chinese cook; a sailor vanishes; and, with the cat as their clue, they find the cook’s stash and papers concealed in the foretopsail before he slips away into the river. The sea “mystery” resolves into human fear, prejudice, and nerve, with the cat merely a catalyst for men undone by isolation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76815,908,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76815,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76815,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76816,520,'"The great Roxhythe" by Georgette Heyer is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. Set amid Restoration politics, it follows the charismatic yet enigmatic Marquis of Roxhythe—favorite of King Charles II—on a covert mission to court William of Orange, with a keen young secretary, Christopher Dart, drawn into espionage and statecraft. Expect court intrigue, rival ministers, continental travel, and a tension between loyalty to a monarch and loyalty to a nation.  The opening of the novel introduces Whitehall’s glitter and gossip before King Charles privately tasks Roxhythe with secretly approaching his nephew William to secure England’s advantage despite the recent alliance with Holland. Briefed—uneasily—by Buckingham and Ashley-Cooper, Roxhythe recruits Christopher Dart, stages a public royal rebuff as cover, and sets out for the Low Countries. In Flushing and along the Dutch road, he deftly plays off suspected spies (including the amenable Mr. Milward and a man linked to Hyde), feigns illness at Rotterdam with the help of the loyal apothecary de Staal, and slips away by night. Reaching The Hague, he enlists Christopher’s brother Roderick—now devoted to William despite De Witt’s oversight—and quietly secures a clandestine evening audience with the Prince. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76816,908,'Reading ease score: 84.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76816,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76816,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76816,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76817,520,'"Disease in captive wild mammals and birds :  incidence, description, comparison." by Herbert Fox, M.D. is a scientific monograph written in the early 20th century. It compiles systematic autopsies of zoo-kept mammals and birds to measure how often diseases occur, describe their pathology, and compare patterns across taxonomic orders, with practical guidance for zoo medicine, husbandry, and comparative pathology.  The opening of the volume presents a foreword describing the Philadelphia Zoological Garden’s routine postmortems since the early 1900s and their dividends—improved hygiene and disinfection, halted outbreaks, and dramatic reductions in tuberculosis in monkeys and spiropteriasis in parrots—while reflecting on disease in wild versus captive settings and on captivity’s stresses (diet, climate, fear, boredom, loneliness, reproductive challenges). The Introduction sets the scope and method: thousands of standardized autopsies organized by order to track incidence and describe lesions, alongside candid limits of clinical diagnosis and the cautions of extrapolating captive data to the wild. It surveys management factors (diet and vitamins, housing and temperature, flooring), the roles of parasites and epizootics, key differences in avian versus mammalian inflammatory responses, and broad longevity patterns, and it acknowledges the laboratory team and the taxonomic framework. The section closes with classification and autopsy counts and begins the heart-disease chapter, outlining how degenerations, inflammations, and enlargement (muscle bulk versus chamber size) will be compared across taxa. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76817,908,'Reading ease score: 44.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76817,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76817,681);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76817,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76818,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge is a popular educational periodical written in the early 19th century. It presents a wide-ranging miscellany designed to spread practical and improving information—natural history, geography, industry and commerce, agriculture, biography, moral essays, and household guidance—to a general readership.  This issue opens with a striking description of the Natural Bridge of Virginia and related rock bridges in South America, then turns to clear, data-rich “Statistical Notes” on English and Welsh agriculture, covering corn-laws, price fluctuations, enclosures, farm sizes and leases, costs of cultivation, livestock and wool, and the scope for improvement. A witty anecdote about a Parisian shoeblack’s enterprising poodle lightens the tone before a substantial feature on mahogany traces the wood’s rise in British homes and details the arduous Honduran cycle of felling, road-cutting, trucking by oxen, river-floating, rafting, and export. Short essays define education in its professional, civic, and religious dimensions; argue that diligence outworks mere talent; and show how to learn geography by reading landforms first, since hills shape rivers, towns, minerals, and livelihoods. A weekly column sketches John Wesley’s tireless life and notes the year’s longest day with moral reflections in verse, while practical pieces advise on June bulb care and defend “a little learning” as a public good. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76818,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76818,908,'Reading ease score: 53.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76818,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76819,520,'"Zonder geweer op jacht" by William J. Long is a collection of nature essays written in the early 20th century. It celebrates observing wildlife without gun or camera, blending fieldcraft, natural history, and quiet philosophy to reveal the daily lives and behaviors of animals in the North American wilderness.  The opening of this collection lays out the author’s credo of “hunting without a gun” and then illustrates it through vivid encounters: deer using a lakeshore “playground” of running circles and quick turns; a vigilant big buck wordlessly ending the game; a child calmly accepted by curious deer; close paddles among moose, including a massive bull with velvet antlers; and a twilight scene where ducks lift off at a silent communal signal. Next comes a kingfisher “school,” with parents guarding a riverside burrow, enforcing fishing territories, and teaching fledglings to dive in a stocked practice pool before the young turn their lessons into playful contests. A portrait of the wildcat (bobcat) follows, stressing its unpredictability, patient fishing from logs, rumored whisker-lure tactics, and a striking anecdote of a stolen creel-net found high in a fir with the trapped thief inside. The section closes by turning to animal self‑medication, noting how people—from Native traditions to early Greek medicine—learned remedies by watching what sick animals sought in the wild. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76819,908,'Reading ease score: 66.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76819,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76819,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76820,520,'"The history of the Norman conquest of England, its causes and its results,…." by Edward A. Freeman is a historical account written in the late 19th century. The work argues that the Norman Conquest was a decisive turning point—not the beginning—of English history, and examines its causes, course, and long-term effects on law, language, government, and society. Volume I focuses on the deep background in England and Normandy, especially the Anglo-Saxon formation of the English kingdom and the Danish and Norman contexts leading up to the election of Edward the Confessor.  The opening of the work presents revised prefaces explaining editorial updates, map improvements, and the author’s method (including Old-English spellings), while answering critics and clarifying specific historical confusions. The introduction sets the thesis: the Conquest brought a powerful foreign infusion but preserved and reshaped existing English institutions; it was more than a dynastic change yet less than a people’s displacement, and its later legal and linguistic effects grew over time. The plan of the narrative runs from early English and Norman histories through the reigns of Edward, Harold, and William, and on to the settling of results by the time of Edward I. At the start of the main text, the author sketches the heathen English conquest of Britain, distinguishing it from other Teutonic settlements: the English largely displaced the Romano-British order, retained their language, and were later Christianized from Rome, not by native Britons. He attributes this difference to Britain’s weaker Romanization and the newcomers’ distance from Roman civilization, and he rejects the tidy “Heptarchy” model while highlighting the leading early kingdoms (notably Kent, Wessex, East Anglia, and Northumbria) and the early growth of Wessex. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76820,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_History_of_the_Norman_Conquest_of_England',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76820,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76820,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76820,660);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76821,520,'"The sureness of MacKenzie by Frederick R. Bechdolt" is a nautical short story written in the early 20th century. It centers on a veteran San Francisco bar pilot whose steadfast confidence is tested as he guides a great ocean liner through fog, surf, and shifting currents at the Golden Gate.  A telephone summons pulls MacKenzie from home on the eve of his grandchildren’s birthday, and he heads out to the pilot boat in heavy weather, trading wagers and barbed talk with fellow pilots who chafe at his unshakable certainty. He aims to board the Empress, leaps for her Jacob’s ladder in a rolling sea, and takes the bridge, threading her around the breaking bar and down North Channel. When a sudden fog drop and hill wind warp the siren signals and a strong ebb shoves the ship toward disaster at Fort Point, the captain panics; MacKenzie holds his course by feel, sound, and experience, seemingly steering into danger to clear Lime Point. The fog thins, the harbor opens, and the liner steams in safely. Home in time for the party, he dotes on the children while his family, amused and admiring, sums him up in a phrase: he is so sure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76821,908,'Reading ease score: 70.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76821,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76821,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76821,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76822,520,'"Four American poets : William Cullen Bryant, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, John…." by Sherwin Cody is a collection of biographical sketches written in the late 19th century. Aimed at young readers, it presents the lives and signature works of Bryant, Longfellow, Whittier, and Holmes in an uplifting, instructive tone. The focus is on character, industry, patriotism, and a cultivated love of nature and poetry.  The opening of the volume frames the series’ purpose for “young Americans,” then devotes a full, readable life of William Cullen Bryant: a primer on loving Nature (with an extended look at his “Inscription for the Entrance to a Wood”), his Puritan New England childhood, early verses and “The Embargo,” the rediscovery and publication of “Thanatopsis,” a reluctant turn to law, and his defining career as editor of the New York Evening Post, including his disciplined habits, public principles, travels, prosperity, and later honors; it closes with practical guidance on how to appreciate his poems. It then turns to Henry W. Longfellow, tracing his Portland ancestry and boyhood, first publications, the local color behind “My Lost Youth,” Bowdoin days alongside Hawthorne, his early professorships, marriage and bereavement, the move to Cambridge and the Craigie House, and the convivial “Five of Clubs,” ending as his Cambridge circle and literary life come into view. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76822,908,'Reading ease score: 68.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76822,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76822,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76823,520,'"Korpi liikkuu :  Yksinäytöksinen näytelmä by Kaarle Halme" is a one-act play written in the early 20th century. It dramatizes the awakening of working-class consciousness in a small industrial community, focusing on labor rights, workplace injustice, and the pushback against corporate power.  The play unfolds in the blacksmith Perttu’s home, where news rolls in: wages have been cut, the factory wants to buy the family’s land, and the foreman Huikari has harassed Lyyli, Antti’s fiancée. Antti defends her and soon both he and Perttu are dismissed—ostensibly for insubordination and agitation after a workers’ meeting. Mikko, the local landowner and Lyyli’s uncle, refuses to sell the land to the factory. Huikari arrives proposing a “settlement” that would reinstate the men if agitation stops and the land sale proceeds, but Antti rejects the terms and demands Huikari’s removal. Heljo, a young machinist, brings word that the workers have gathered, approved firm resolutions, and stand united. The act ends with renewed resolve and the hopeful refrain that “the forest moves,” a metaphor for a community stirring to collective action. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76823,908,'Reading ease score: 54.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76823,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76824,520,'"Aamuruskon siivillä :  Runosäkeistöjä by Waldemar Piha" is a collection of lyric poetry written in the early 20th century. The poems revolve around the tension between darkness and light, the cycles of nature and the seasons, inward longing and faith, and the shaping forces of homeland, myth, and memory.  The book moves from existential wandering to renewal. After an opening on the traveler’s uncertain path, the first section sinks into night, storm, and mortality while guarding a stubborn spark of hope. The sonnets turn to longing, battle and fear (Ares), the forest’s hidden springs, parents and inheritance, and a tragic echo of Aino. Muinaisuus looks back to antiquity and legend (Aphrodite), sketches a homeless prince and the quiet step of Death, then circles home to birthplace, childhood, and a prophetic voice that exalts steadfastness. In the final section, spring breaks the ice: waters loosen, light ascends, the human spirit kindles, sea sunrise and moonlit forest enlarge the gaze, and the title poem greets dawn’s wings; symbols like the lily, hymns to happiness, and a closing “Resurrection” seal the arc from wintered despair to liberated, luminous resolve. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76824,908,'Reading ease score: 51.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76824,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76825,520,'"Through the Dark Continent, Vol. 2 (of 2) :  or, The sources of the Nile around…" by Henry M. Stanley is an exploration narrative and geographical travel account written in the late 19th century. It chronicles an expedition across central Africa, focusing on the Great Lakes, the peoples and markets around them, and the route down the Livingstone (Congo) River to the Atlantic. Early attention centers on Lake Tanganyika—its rising waters, coastal communities, and the debated Lukuga outlet—with detailed observations of geography, trade, and the hazards of travel.  The opening of the work places the reader in Ujiji, portraying its market bustle, Arab–Wajiji power balance, currencies and prices (including the slave trade), and the feuding among coastal Arabs, before shifting to the author’s plan to circumnavigate Tanganyika and test claims that the Lukuga is an outflow. He selects a crew, launches the Lady Alice with a canoe consort, and coasts south, taking soundings, tracing rivers, and hunting, while navigating threats from Ruga-Ruga bandits and the notorious robbers of Ndereh. Along the shore he records a gruesomely sacked village at Kiwesa, repeated signs that the lake level is rising (submerged trees, flooded fences, encroached fields), and striking geological features suggesting older, higher water or even formerly separate basins. After a violent storm near Kasawa and friendly trade on the Rufuvu, he reaches the Lukuga mouth, where sand spits have vanished, and collects conflicting local testimony about a seasonally reversing flow toward the Lualaba/Kamalondo, setting up his planned exploration of the creek. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76825,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Morton_Stanley%27s_first_trans-Africa_expedition',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76825,908,'Reading ease score: 64.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76825,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76825,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76826,520,'"Jock with Mousie" by Agnes Giberne is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. It follows sensitive, spirited Jock Munro, left in England with his grandmother and strict Aunt Judith when his mother sails to India, as he befriends the impulsive Phœbe “Mousie” Moore and learns hard lessons about obedience, truthfulness, and growing up. Set in a village world of curates, great houses, and childhood adventures, it blends warmth with moral guidance.  The opening of the story introduces Jock’s close bond with his mother, his eighth birthday, and the blow that she must join his father in India without him, sending Jock to live with Grannie and Aunt Judith. After a kind journey under Mr. Royle’s care, Jock settles into village life, meets the lively Moore family, and becomes fast friends with Mousie. Mousie lures him “out of bounds” to a pond in a private wood; Jock bruises his arm, Artie briefly goes missing, and the children sneak home, keeping the escapade secret. When Aunt Judith questions him, Jock won’t betray Mousie and is accused of lying; he nearly writes a distressing letter to his mother but is steadied by Captain Royle’s counsel to take responsibility. He accepts punishment, is comforted by Grannie, and life moves on toward spring, schoolroom prizes, and a tentative easing of tensions as his new world takes shape. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76826,908,'Reading ease score: 87.0 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76826,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76826,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76826,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76827,520,'"Us, and our charge" by Amy Le Feuvre is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Grisel Marjoribanks and her siblings—Denys, Aylwin, Lynette, and little Puff—newly orphaned rector’s children who move from their English rectory to their stern Scottish grandfather’s seaside home, trying to live by their father’s last words, “Hold fast.” Blending family drama, seaside adventure, and gentle Christian moral purpose, it explores grief, loyalty, and courage as the children test rules, make friends, and find their place in a new household.  The opening of the story traces the children’s bereavement and upheaval: after their father dies, a kind lawyer reveals an estranged grandfather who offers them a home at Bantock Hall. Narrator Grisel records their anxious journey north, a chilly first meeting with the gouty Colonel Noble and aloof Aunt Isobel, and a tussle over independence versus being treated like “nursery” children. The coast becomes their refuge: a comic escape with the old cart leads to the daring rescue of lively Pat Douglas using the carriage reins, then a sudden scare when Pat’s empty sailboat is found drifting; that night Denys and Aylwin spot a bonfire on the offshore islands, reach Pat stranded in a cave at high tide, and bring him home injured but alive. Alongside these adventures, Puff wins over “Gruffy” (grandfather), and Grisel frames the family’s resolve around their father’s charge to “hold fast.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76827,908,'Reading ease score: 87.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76827,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76827,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76827,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76827,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76828,520,'"Through Keeweenaw by Keith Henney" is a nautical short story written in the early 20th century. Set on the Great Lakes, it blends maritime realism with a subtle supernatural edge, focusing on a fogbound approach to the Portage Lake Canal and a captain haunted by past losses. The likely topic is a tense passage through fog where grief, superstition, and wireless technology intersect.  A radio operator narrates as a new skipper, Captain Trinder, takes command of the steamer Chippewa after years of avoiding the canal where his wife drowned and long after losing his grandson in another wreck. Fascinated by the idea that the dead might speak through radio, Trinder presses on into thick fog near the canal entrance, where the foghorn’s direction proves unreliable and the ship edges dangerously close to the breakwater. At the crisis, the operator receives a strange signal—“SSE… SSE, Anna”—which the captain treats as guidance; steering south-southeast, they pass a small boat named Anna and slip safely into the channel, arriving only slightly late. Though the signal likely came from that craft’s call letters, the captain believes his wife sent it, and the tale ends on an ambiguous note between coincidence and faith. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76828,908,'Reading ease score: 76.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76828,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76828,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76828,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76829,520,'"How to write photoplays by Embrie Zuver" is an instructional guide written in the early 20th century. It teaches aspiring writers how to craft silent-era screen stories, focusing on the principles of photoplay construction, technical terms, and professional practices for the moving-picture industry.  The book opens with clear definitions of studio and camera terms, then walks readers through idea generation, plot formation, pacing and reel length, scenario formatting, titling, synopses, character lists, scene design, continuity, and practical staging. It explains subtitles, inserts, letters, entrances and exits, sets, crisis-to-climax architecture, emotion and sympathy, revisions, manuscript preparation, sales practices, censorship, and the production pipeline, and ends with pointed “don’ts” and a reassuring conclusion. A complete sample scenario, “Timid Teddy,” illustrates everything in practice: a timid young heir is plied with drink by his friend, proposes to the wrong women at a dance, and, after comic complications and a feigned report of financial ruin prompts both fiancées to withdraw, finally proposes to the woman he truly loves, securing a happy ending. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76829,908,'Reading ease score: 65.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76829,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76829,698);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76830,520,'"Arts and crafts of old Japan" by Stewart Dick is an introductory art history survey written in the early 20th century. Aimed at general readers rather than connoisseurs, it explains the aesthetics, materials, and methods behind Japan’s traditional arts, from painting and color prints to sculpture, metalwork, ceramics, lacquer, gardens, and flower arrangement. It sets these arts within their social and historical context, contrasting Japanese conventions with Western expectations and highlighting the key schools, masters, and techniques that shaped “old Japan.”  The opening of Arts and crafts of old Japan sets out the author’s purpose, cautions against unreliable criticism, and names a few dependable authorities, then offers a broad introduction arguing that Japan’s refined aesthetic culture, calligraphic training, and lightweight architecture produced arts marked by suggestion, restraint, and superb design. It sketches Japan’s historical backdrop—from the arrival of Buddhism and temple-centered culture through samurai rule and Tokugawa peace to the disruptive contact with the West—before surveying painting’s forms, brush-based conventions, and major lineages (Buddhist imagery, Tosa/Yamato, the Chinese-influenced masters such as Sesshiu, the Kano school, Korin’s decorative originality, and the Ukioyé turn toward everyday life). The book then outlines the rise of color printing as a democratic art, its block-cutting and printing process, and its leading figures (Harunobu, Kiyonaga, Utamaro, Toyokuni, Hokusai, Hiroshige), noting later decline with aniline dyes; it proceeds to Buddhist sculpture in wood and bronze (including the colossal Buddhas of Nara and Kamakura), the shift to realistic portraits and netsuké miniatures, and finally to metalwork—temple bells, lanterns, mirrors, the Miochin armourers, and the sword tradition—pausing to describe casting methods and the ceremonial ethos of sword-forging. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76830,908,'Reading ease score: 53.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76830,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76831,520,'"Cap al tard :  Poesies by Joan Alcover" is a collection of lyric and elegiac poems written in the early 20th century. The book explores Mallorcan landscapes and folk life, personal grief and faith, and a renewed sense of Catalan cultural identity.  The poems first celebrate the Serra de Tramuntana and the sea, giving voice to hermits, pines, sirens, and a captive vulture to reflect on freedom, destiny, and the island’s soul. Pastoral scenes of villages and coves shift into moral and spiritual meditations, as a traveler finds refuge in an hermitage and the quiet is broken by an execution. The Elegies dwell on bells, childhood gardens, longing, and desolation, culminating in a dialogue with the Muse that turns private mourning—especially for lost children—into art and prayer. The book embraces the native tongue and history, honoring medieval valor in a poem of the cross, greeting Catalonia across the sea, and kindling a collective awakening in the vision of “the spark.” Addresses to fellow artists and island scenes add portraits of contemporary culture and place. The final section gathers youthful pieces of love and devotion and concludes with a visionary homage to Ramon Llull, binding nature, memory, sorrow, and hope into a single, resonant voice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76831,908,'Reading ease score: 60.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76831,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76832,520,'"Sämtliche Werke 21 : Der Spieler. Der ewige Gatte : Zwei Romane" by Dostoyevsky is a collection of two novels written in the late 19th century. The volume couples a tale of gambling fever and romantic obsession at a European spa with a stark psychological study of jealousy and humiliation. In the first, a young Russian tutor is drawn to the roulette table and to the proud Polina amid a circle of schemers and pretenders; in the second, a haunted widower confronts a former rival. Across both, money, pride, and desire strip away social veneers among émigré Russians abroad.  The opening of Der Spieler follows Alexei, tutor to a Russian General’s family, as he rejoins them in Roulettenburg, where they posture as wealthy while quietly awaiting an inheritance from the ailing “Babushka.” The General dazzles and borrows, a slick French “marquis” and the calculating Mademoiselle Blanche circle, and the shy Englishman Mr. Astley silently adores Polina. Alexei’s charged, unequal bond with Polina dominates: she commands him to gamble for her, and he first wins a tidy sum, then rashly loses everything, even as he grows convinced he will surely win when playing for himself. Between tense dinners and nationalist spats, Alexei studies the casino’s rituals, the genteel pose versus plebeian hunger, and the household’s dependence on news of the old woman’s death. Polina hints at urgent debts and presses him for more money, while Alexei’s pride, passion, and fatalism harden into a vow to test his luck alone. The section ends with their strained exchange hanging in the air and the roulette wheel looming as his chosen fate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76832,908,'Reading ease score: 74.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76832,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76832,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76832,650);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76833,520,'"Der Liebe Lust und Leid der Frau zur Frau" by Emilie Knopf is an erotic novel written in the late 19th century. The work examines women’s same-sex desire within fashionable society, following the refined narrator Felicita and her captivating beloved Edita as admiration blossoms into passion, jealousy, and self-justification. Framed as a caution against excess while reveling in allure, it blends confession, romance, and social scandal.  The opening of the novel juxtaposes a press report about the book’s obscenity case with a preface that invokes Sappho and casts the narrative as a warning about misdirected “women’s love.” The story then introduces Felicita, a wealthy aesthete who meets Edita at a masquerade ball; their intense friendship swiftly becomes a love affair, celebrated in art and private moments. At a seaside resort Felicita is tempted by Comtesse Eugénie, provoking Edita’s hurt and a reconciliation that culminates at Edita’s Rhine castle, where their bond deepens. Travel to Italy leads them into an aristocratic “ladies’ night” of voyeurism and indulgence, where Edita playfully stokes Felicita’s jealousy before restoring harmony. On the return through Tyrol they befriend a singer and an industrialist’s wife, overhearing a transactional liaison that the narrator views with distaste. Back home the pair devote themselves to painting and music, receive pupils, and later welcome the Venetian Marchesa and her companion—where the excerpt ends. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76833,908,'Reading ease score: 66.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76833,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76833,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76833,703);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76833,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76834,520,'"The Arctic legions by A. De Herries Smith" is a pulp adventure short story written in the early 20th century. The story centers on a Mountie and the dangerous prisoner he’s captured, stranded amid a vast caribou migration on the Barren Lands, where their standoff becomes a brutal test of will, cunning, and survival against nature’s relentless tide.  Corporal Conroy, injured and disarmed, faces Yeyik, the Yellowknife killer, on a boulder as millions of caribou thunder past. Yeyik taunts him with a stolen Colt while both men fray under the maddening click of hooves. Conroy needles the vain hunter into firing into the herd; Yeyik leaps onto a deer, and Conroy dives after him, the pair swallowed by the stampede. Fighting through the chaos, Conroy wrests control, hauls Yeyik back to safety, and waits as wolves arrive, signaling the migration’s end. With the danger passed, he reclaims the gun, disarms the prisoner, and marches him toward the post across the suddenly silent Barrens. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76834,908,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76834,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76834,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76834,640);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76835,520,'"Die Totentänze by Wolfgang Stammler" is a concise art-historical study written in the early 20th century. It examines the medieval and later “Dance of Death” tradition, outlining its religious origins, visual forms, and didactic purpose while tracing how the motif evolved from church-wall cycles to prints and books and then into modern art.  The book opens with the medieval mindset of pious vigilance before death and the folk belief that the dead dance and draw the living into their ranks, a warning the clergy turned into moral instruction. It distinguishes two main image types: an earlier, solemn, processional dance anchored by preaching and biblical scenes, and a later, livelier, often grotesque dance in which animated corpses seize their partners; key cycles in France, Germany, and beyond illustrate both strands. The author then follows the theme into manuscripts and blockbooks with captioned dialogues, where pairing a dead figure with a living one paved the way for the personified Death, culminating in the Renaissance with Holbein’s decisive reinterpretation of Death interrupting everyday life. Finally, the survey sketches the motif’s persistence through Baroque and Rococo variants to 19th- and early 20th-century renewals (including responses to war), and closes with a brief anthology of examples and images, ending on a lyrical reflection about death’s abiding presence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76835,908,'Reading ease score: 63.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76835,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76835,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76835,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76836,520,'"The common sense of sex by James Oppenheim" is a short work of popular psychology and sex education written in the early 20th century. It presents a clear, non-puritan view of sexuality, blending psychoanalytic ideas with practical guidance, and argues that sexual life is natural, varied, and best approached with informed common sense.  The book surveys Freud’s account of infantile sexuality, fixation, perversion, and sublimation; contrasts it with Jung’s critiques, his introvert–extravert types, and the four functions (thinking, feeling, intuition, sensation) to show why sexuality differs so widely among individuals. It evaluates claims about a “third sex,” reframing them as mixtures of masculine and feminine principles present in everyone, and emphasizes Havelock Ellis’s “art of love,” where foreplay and mutual responsiveness elevate the act. The author warns against universal moral codes, explaining how fear, repression, mismating, and social pressures (fear of pregnancy, anxiety about impotence, rigid monogamy) distort desire, while misplaced creative energy can fuel perversions or crusading zeal. He urges sex education, compassionate guidance for youth (including handling auto-erotism), nuanced views on homosexuality and prostitution, and flexible, humane arrangements in adult relationships. It closes with an ideal of love that unites tenderness, passion, and respect, encouraging couples to find their own ethical way. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76836,908,'Reading ease score: 57.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76836,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76836,690);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76836,703);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76837,520,'"Three essays" by Thomas Mann is a collection of essays written in the early 20th century. The volume examines towering figures and ideas—chiefly Goethe and Tolstoy, but also Frederick the Great and an occult episode—to probe how art, culture, power, and belief shape human life. Expect comparative criticism, historical reflection, and personal insight rather than narrative fiction.  The opening of the book presents the essay “Goethe and Tolstoy,” beginning with an anecdote about a Weimar schoolmaster who glimpsed Goethe in youth and, decades later, unknowingly hosted Tolstoy in his classroom—an encounter used to justify juxtaposing the two. From there, the author develops a wide-ranging comparison that treats the “and” between their names as a principled contrast, weighing questions of rank and “godlike” charisma, their shared Rousseauian inheritance (nature, education, confession), and the polarity of nature versus spirit, classic versus romantic, health versus disease, and freedom versus necessity. Goethe and Tolstoy are paired as children of nature and creation, set against Schiller and Dostoyevsky as champions of spirit and critique; this frames Tolstoy’s lifelong struggle to renounce nature for moral rigor, his crises and illnesses, and parallel moments in Goethe’s career. The section surveys their attitudes toward art, music, and society, evokes the pilgrim magnetism of Weimar and Yasnaya Polyana, notes their aristocratic bearing, and closes mid-argument as it contrasts Tolstoy’s sensuous realism with Dostoyevsky’s visionary idealism and revisits Goethe’s poised acceptance of necessity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76837,908,'Reading ease score: 55.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76837,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76837,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76838,520,'"Error''s chains :  How forged and broken : A comparative history of the…" by Frank S. Dobbins is a comparative religious history written in the late 19th century. Aimed at general readers and richly illustrated, it surveys how humanity moved from an original monotheism into nature-worship, polytheism, and idolatry across civilizations, contrasting these with Christianity. Drawing on sacred texts, folklore, archaeology, and travel accounts, it traces global beliefs, myths, and rituals to show how “error” was forged and how it might be remedied.  The opening of the work sets out its popular purpose, sources, and scope, then argues that humanity began with one God and later declined into many gods and idols. The preface promises a readable, illustrated tour of world religions, credits scholarly helpers, and states a Christian aim: to heighten appreciation for biblical faith and concern for the “heathen” world. Chapter I presents two witnesses for an original unity—an “old record” (Genesis) and the kinship of languages—then uses comparative folklore (the “Master Thief” cycle in Norse, Egyptian, Hindu, Spanish, and Scottish variants) to argue for a common cultural origin before the dispersion from Babel; it also notes widespread “golden age” memories and traces of a supreme deity. Chapter II explains the transition from monotheism to nature-worship and personification of the elements, quotes early hymns (Varuna, Indra, Agni, Surya) and prayers, and sketches how idols likely arose (from aids to devotion and sacred stones to animal and human forms like teraphim, Dagon, and serpent images). Chapter III begins compiling creation and flood traditions—from Chaldean Xisuthrus and Hindu Manu to Chinese Fuh-he, Mexican Coxcox/Tezpi, Fijian and North American tales, and Greek Deucalion—using their shared contours to reinforce the biblical narrative, and it moves toward the Babel story as the next link. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76838,908,'Reading ease score: 62.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76838,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76838,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76838,646);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76839,520,'A knife in time by Ray Humphreys is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. It centers on frontier mule-skinning, workplace rivalry, and a public wagon-race where a scorned driver’s knife and nerve become crucial.  Tom Morgan, a slight but gifted mule skinner, is mocked by fellow teamsters for wearing a sheath knife, despite the wagon boss McCarthy valuing his skill. When the Q B outfit brings five polished hitches to a rodeo race overseen by the owner, Ashton, the event turns dangerous: Ashton’s borrowed sorrel mule bolts, dragging him by a caught stirrup straight into the path of the racing wagons. Morgan leaps from his seat, scrambles along his moving hitch, mounts a leader, and slices that mule free to chase the runaway. His driverless team collides with another, killing a mule and injuring a driver, but Morgan presses on, transfers to the sorrel at speed, and cuts Ashton loose just in time. In the aftermath, Morgan explains he carries the knife after once losing mules he might have saved; Ashton, grateful and alive, ends the crew’s prejudice and promotes Morgan to assistant wagon boss. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76839,908,'Reading ease score: 74.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76839,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76839,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76839,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76840,520,'"Elettyjä pikkuseikkailuja" by Knut Hamsun is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The pieces are autobiographical vignettes of “lived little adventures,” shifting from American prairies and Parisian boulevards to a stark Norwegian parish. A frank, restless first-person narrator observes fear, crowds, work, and the uncanny with sharp sensory detail and dry humor. Readers get atmospheric snapshots rather than a single plot, anchored by the narrator’s roaming life.  The opening of the collection first offers a compact biographical sketch of the author’s life and major works, then moves into several first-person episodes. In “Pelkoa,” the narrator recalls a night in Madelia on the American prairie when intruders break into a house, triggering overwhelming terror as he bluffs them off with a single bullet. “Muuan katuvallankumous” recreates Paris street unrest in the 1890s, from barricades and smashed lamps to scuffles with police and soldiers, mixing menace with absurdity (an umbrella “confiscated” because “it’s a revolution”). “Aave” returns to a northern childhood: after pocketing a tooth from a graveyard, the boy is haunted for years by a red-bearded apparition with a missing tooth. “Vehnäaavikolla” sketches grueling harvest work on the Red River wheat plains, the eccentric Irishman Evans, a snake slipping into a Swede’s boot, and the raucous post‑payday spree where Evans borrows the narrator’s wallet to gamble, then regains control and wins back money. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76840,908,'Reading ease score: 41.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76840,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76841,520,'"Tarutarha by Larin-Kyösti" is a collection of children’s poems written in the early 20th century. The book blends fairy-tale fantasy, Finnish folklore, and everyday rural life, offering lullabies, play-songs, letters in verse, seasonal pieces, and moral fables for young readers.  Across short, melodic poems, a small girl resists a witch’s lure and runs home, a boy and his loyal dog brave make-believe dangers, and lively portraits of children—Irja, Liisa, Niilo, and Anni—show games, chores, letters to parents, and earnest prayers. House and sauna spirits (tonttu) fuss over family order and kind behavior; carols and star-processions bring Christmas awe; a street musician’s song hints at loneliness and hope; and a closing fable pits a sly raven against a wary dove to warn against flattery and deceit. Nature, home, and imagination weave through the pieces, gently guiding children toward courage, kindness, and the comfort of family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76841,908,'Reading ease score: 52.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76841,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76841,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76841,646);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76842,520,'"Fools and mules :  [A Shorty McKay story] by Ray Humphreys" is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. Set in the snowbound Sangre de Cristo mountains near Monte Vista, it centers on a perilous winter payroll run and a run-in with a notorious road agent. The likely topic is a frontier adventure that blends danger, irony, and rough humor to test a deputy’s judgment and highlight the surprising worth of a mule.  Shorty McKay is tasked with carrying a mine’s payroll through deep snow; he rejects a mule for his trusted horse, Lobo Loco. On a narrow, icy trail he’s held up by Buck Bancroft, who rides a huge white mule, and is forced to ride that mule, bound and captive. A sudden avalanche sweeps Shorty and the mule into a snow pocket, while Lobo Loco turns back, bolts to town, and—by scraping the dozing outlaw off in a stable—delivers Bancroft and the recovered cash to the sheriff. Stranded and helpless, Shorty survives the night as the mule’s relentless braying guides Sheriff Cook’s rescue party to their hidden perch. Humbled, Shorty admits his mistake about “fools and mules,” insists the mule be saved first, and concedes that in a pinch the mule’s noise and stamina were the difference between life and death. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76842,908,'Reading ease score: 76.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76842,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76842,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76842,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76843,520,'The Army Behind the Army by E. Alexander Powell is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It explores the often unseen services and technologies that sustained the American Expeditionary Forces in World War I—especially communications, engineering, transportation, and other logistical arms. The focus is on how specialists and technicians, rather than front-line troops alone, made large-scale modern warfare possible.  The opening of the volume recasts the Signal Corps as the army’s “nerve-system,” replacing the flag-waving myth with telephones, radios, pigeons, runners, panels, lamps, and an extensive wire network. Powell outlines the corps’ rapid expansion, its recruitment of U.S. telephone talent (including female operators), the creation of color-coded outpost wire, and secrecy tools like buzzerphones and twisted-pair lines. He highlights listening-posts that tapped enemy currents, radio-intercept and direction-finding teams that mapped German nets and even staged a deceptive “false corps net,” and the reliability and heroism of carrier pigeons when every other link failed. A photographic branch—air and ground—trained specialists to map, report, teach, and buoy morale with films that countered enemy propaganda. The section closes with striking innovations: radiotelephony with aircraft, multiplexing many calls over a single wire, trees used as natural radio antennae, and a practical, unbreakable cipher-transmission device. The narrative then turns to the Engineers—motto “Essayons”—showing their vast remit from fighting as needed to building railways, ports, roads, and forests-to-lumber operations, operating inland waterways, shipping complete locomotives, and even fielding armored railcars, before introducing the life-or-death problem of supplying water to armies on the move. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76843,908,'Reading ease score: 39.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76843,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76843,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76843,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76844,520,'"Medieval rhetoric and poetic to 1400: Interpreted from representative works" by Charles Sears Baldwin is a scholarly study written in the early 20th century. It traces how medieval theories of composition—rhetoric and poetic—both reflected and shaped education and literature, reading them through key texts and practices. The volume follows the transmission from antiquity, the dominance of style in the schools, and the complementary roles of sermons, letters, hymnody, and verse narrative, culminating in the vernacular achievements of Dante and Chaucer.  The opening of this study sets out its plan and stakes: to read medieval rhetoric and poetic historically and in tandem, showing how they descend from late Roman schooling, absorb St. Augustine’s reforming impulse for preaching, and become largely a lore of style in the hands of the medieval grammarian. It then begins with a concise genealogy of sophistic rhetoric, contrasting Plato’s suspicion with Aristotle’s broader, moral theory of rhetoric, and explaining how the loss of deliberative public speech pushed ancient practice toward display and panegyric. Baldwin sketches the “second sophistic” via Philostratus—its virtuosity, theme-based declamation, improvisation, theatrical delivery, decorative dilation (notably ecphrasis), and reliance on fixed patterns. He illustrates how school exercises (the progymnasmata of Hermogenes—fable, chria, encomium, comparison, characterization, ecphrasis, thesis, and more) crystallized habits that prized balance, archaism, clausular cadence, and vehemence over sustained argument. The section closes by implying that such empty technic required a new motive—ultimately supplied by Christian preaching—to restore rhetoric’s larger purpose. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76844,908,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76844,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76844,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76844,666);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76845,520,'"The golden pool :  A story of a forgotten mine" by R. Austin Freeman is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Richard Englefield, a weary English bank clerk who seizes a chance to ship out as purser on the brig Lady Jane and is drawn into West African trading, local legends, and hints of hidden gold. Guided and sometimes misled by sailors, merchants, and colonials—including Captain Bithery and the dignified trader Pereira—he stumbles on stories of a sacred treasure and a “forgotten” mine that promise peril and discovery.  The opening of the story traces how a misplaced matchbox leads Englefield into a tavern brawl, a hasty rescue of a surly shipmaster, and an impulsive offer to sail as purser to the West African coast. After a fair voyage, he helps establish trade at Quittah, learning the rhythms of buying and selling palm oil, rubber, and copra, while hearing unsettling tales: a Hausa merchant’s talk of a king’s treasure house and “many blind men,” and Pereira’s account of fetish-guarded gold at the Aboasi pool. A Sunday trip inland reveals a mission graveyard and a scarred, eyeless Krepi man who seems a former Ashanti slave, deepening the mystery. Sent down the coast to Adena, Englefield meets the smooth Olympio, endures a fiery local feast, and in a secret compartment of an old sea chest discovers the faded journal of Captain Barnabas Hogg—an artifact that hints his own quest is only beginning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76845,908,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76845,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76845,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76845,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76846,520,'"The three sphinxes, and other poems by George Sylvester Viereck" is a collection of lyric and dramatic poems written in the early 20th century. The book probes the tensions between erotic desire and spiritual idealism, drawing on myth, religion, and modern psychology to meditate on love, art, faith, and mortality.  An opening essay frames the poems as “complexes” revolving around Eros, Jesus, Lilith, and Eve. The title poem stages a dialogue in the desert where facets of Love confront the sacred and the bestial; elsewhere, terse pieces weigh fate and biology, while longer monologues and ballads reimagine biblical and cultural figures to test moral codes. A fierce credo reduces human certainties to appetite and death; a visit from Christ to a Puritan town rebukes joyless piety; Faust tires of heaven and hell while yearning to fuse Helen and Marguerite; Eve speaks the long suffering of women; and tributes, elegies, and city-visions praise the stubborn life of art. Across love lyrics, satires, and visionary psalms, the collection moves between ecstasy and disenchantment, ending in stark addresses to God and man’s frail, defiant will. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76846,908,'Reading ease score: 75.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76846,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76846,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76847,520,'"Ristimiekka by Jussi Snellman" is a collection of lyric poems written in the early 20th century. The book meditates on spiritual struggle and redemption, the ache of love and solitude, and the pull of nature and conscience against the noise of modern life.  The opening sequence frames a moral transformation as a killing sword becomes a blessing cross, then moves through prayers from darkness, visions of stars and hell, and images of withering trees and waterlilies torn between roots and sun. A central cluster of love poems swings between rapture and remorse: ecstatic meetings by shore and forest path, sleepless waiting, erotic abandon that still longs for the beloved’s soul, and parting as two currents drift to opposite banks. Spring poems widen the view to freedom and flight, a caged swan’s yearning, hymns to creation, and portraits of an idealist who rejects violence, a serene grandmother, and an artist whose marble dreams outshine a corrupt world. Summer brings playful and satiric pieces about haste, voyeurism, drink, and human vanity, before the voice turns inward again to say that each of us is crucified in some way. The final section follows a seeker who pleads for truth, receives a quiet commission to bear light, contemplates Gandhi’s nonviolent courage, and ends in a humble, encompassing prayer. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76847,908,'Reading ease score: 53.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76847,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76847,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76848,520,'"Toinen rakkaus" by Paul Bourget is a novel written in the late 19th century. It is a psychologically acute study of love, weariness, and conscience centered on Elie Laurence, a disillusioned young diplomat who becomes entangled with Claire de Velde and her lover Gérard Lairesse in Parisian high society. The narrative probes a delicate triangle where friendship, desire, and moral duty collide, examining the cost of “second love” against social judgment and inner truth.  The opening of this novel first sketches Bourget’s career and method—his meticulous psychological analysis of the elite—then begins Elie Laurence’s story: after a duel abroad derails his career, he returns to Paris and confronts a profound spiritual ennui born of trivial affairs and empty routine. He unexpectedly meets Gérard Lairesse, once scandalously eloped with the dignified Claire Audry (now Claire de Velde), and is invited to their home. Elie notes subtle signs of distance between the pair—separate rhythms, awkward meals, mismatched interests—while Claire’s reserved grace and quiet sadness captivate him. Drawn to her afternoon solitude, he becomes a daily visitor, their conversations deepening into a tender, avowed “friendship.” A pivotal evening finds Claire in despair; shared sympathy binds them, and Elie realizes he loves her even as he vows to remain only a friend out of loyalty to Gérard. The segment closes with Elie’s growing jealousy and his clear sense that Gérard stays with Claire less from passion than from duty, setting the stage for the novel’s central emotional conflict. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76848,908,'Reading ease score: 30.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76848,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76848,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76848,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76849,520,'"This star shall be free by Murray Leinster" is a science fiction short story written in the mid-20th century. It follows an alien ecological experiment imposed on prehistoric humans, using advanced tools and a compulsion device to explore how abundance and technology might reshape a species and its future, with themes of unintended consequences and cultural acceleration.  A young cave-dweller named Tork is drawn by an alien ship’s mind-urge to its landing site, where water-dwelling Antareans gift him a device that summons living creatures and simple but transformative weapons like flint-tipped spears, knives, and bows. The tribe feasts, spreads the tools, and chaos follows as others covet the new power. When theft hits home, Tork cleverly retunes the summoning device to the aliens themselves by drawing their likeness on cave walls, trapping the ship until it trades more tools for the destruction of those images—accidentally launching the tradition of cave art and cementing humanity’s rapid rise. Millennia later, the aliens return to colonize Earth’s oceans, only to be annihilated by the now spacefaring descendants of those cave-folk, revealing the long arc of consequences set in motion by one “kind” experiment. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76849,908,'Reading ease score: 76.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76849,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76849,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76849,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76850,520,'"The watchmakers'' hand book :  intended as a workshop companion for those… by Claudius Saunier is a technical handbook written in the late 19th century. It is a comprehensive reference for watchmakers and allied mechanical trades, focusing on practical methods, materials, tools, measurement, repairs, and finishing techniques to support daily workshop work.  The opening of the handbook presents a transcriber’s note on formatting, followed by period advertisements, the title page, and a preface explaining the American edition’s practical aims, expanded content, modernized tooling, integrated illustrations, and thorough indexing. An extensive index outlines the breadth of topics, after which Part I begins by arguing that arithmetic, geometry, and drawing are essential foundations for competent watch repair and construction despite interchangeable manufacturing. It then offers concise refreshers on calculation signs, powers and roots (including square-root extraction), proportions, and the elements of practical geometry (circles, angles, plane areas, and volumes). The text proceeds to basic drawing practice and conventions, tracing and transferring methods, and key instruments (rules, protractor, scales, sector, proportional compass, vernier, micrometer screw), before introducing core geometric constructions for perpendiculars, parallels, subdivisions, and angle replication—ending mid-topic on subdividing an angle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76850,908,'Reading ease score: 59.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76850,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76850,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76850,697);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58634,'de.wikipedia','https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Claudius_Saunier');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76851,520,'"First course in biology" by L. H. Bailey and Walter Moore Coleman is a secondary-school biology textbook written in the early 20th century. It presents plant, animal, and human biology as a unified, practical course that favors observation, experiment, and everyday relevance over rote facts. Readers can expect clear explanations, abundant classroom and field exercises, and an ecological perspective that ties structure and function to environment.  The opening of the textbook sets a reform-minded tone, advocating a single unit course in biology for secondary students and outlining flexible ways to sequence plant, animal, and human topics. A general introduction then builds essential chemistry and physics skills through simple experiments—testing acids and bases, starch, sugar, proteids, and fats; making oxygen; demonstrating oxidation; contrasting organic and inorganic matter; and analyzing a candle flame to reveal oxygen consumption, carbon (soot), and carbon dioxide. Plant Biology begins by stressing variation, environmental struggle, and selection (including human selection in breeding), then surveys plant societies (ecology), plant parts and life histories (annuals, biennials, perennials). It proceeds to seeds and germination with hands-on studies of beans, castor beans, corn, and gymnosperms, and concludes with root forms and functions—tap and fibrous systems, aerial and adventitious roots, root hairs and osmosis, nitrogen-fixing nodules, and the importance of moisture, temperature, and air—ending mid-discussion of root structure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76851,908,'Reading ease score: 69.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76851,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76851,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76852,520,'The chocolate-plant (Theobroma cacao) and its products by Anonymous is a scientific and industrial pamphlet from the late 19th century. It surveys cacao’s origins, botany, chemistry, cultivation, processing into chocolate and cocoa, their nutritional qualities, and practical culinary uses.  The book opens with the pre-Columbian and early colonial history of cacao, describing indigenous roasting, grinding, and foaming methods and the swift spread of chocolate in Europe. It then details the plant’s morphology and growth, the bearing of pods on older wood, shade and irrigation needs, harvesting, fermentation (“sweating”), drying, and major producing regions. A technical chapter characterizes commercial beans microscopically and chemically, noting starch, cellulose, proteins, theobromine, ash, and especially cocoa-butter. Manufacturing chapters explain cleaning, roasting, winnowing to nibs, fine grinding into plain or sweetened chocolate, pressing to reduce fat for breakfast cocoa, and caution against chemically alkalized cocoas that diminish natural flavor. A physiological section argues cacao’s value as real food—combining carbohydrates, proteins, minerals, and theobromine—and explains why partial fat removal can aid digestion while purity and fineness are essential. The closing portion offers cooking guidance and recipes (by Mrs. Ellen H. Richards and Miss Parloa) for properly boiling chocolate and cocoa and for using them in drinks, cakes, icings, ice-cream, puddings, and Bavarian cream. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76852,908,'Reading ease score: 56.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76852,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76852,668);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76852,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76852,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76852,684);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76852,678);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76853,520,'"Blank en Bruin" by Hilbrandt Boschma is a juvenile novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Leo van Dintelburg, a Dutch-Indies boy, and his Javanese guardian Bamboe as they settle in a Dutch town, where schoolyard rivalry, class pride, and racial prejudice test character and faith. Opposite Leo stands Rudolf van Dintelburg, a privileged classmate, and the story frames youth as a choice between two paths, with a clear Christian, didactic bent.  The opening of the novel sets out a prefatory promise: a contemporary Dutch tale for boys that avoids chauvinism, stays close to recent history, and urges youth to devote their lives to God by showing the contrast between serving Him and not. The story then introduces Bamboe and Leo arriving with parrots and a monkey, drawing rude curiosity from local boys led by Rudolf; Leo’s quick wit and a policeman end the first confrontation. At school, Mr. Selhof welcomes Leo, explains his mixed Dutch–Javanese background, and the class warm to him, with cultural misunderstandings (like “kool/kolen”) used for gentle humor. Tensions rise when Rudolf challenges Leo over the shared surname, but Dirk Drijver sides with Leo. Winter brings a planned, rule-bound snowball battle; Leo’s side fortifies a “fort,” a fierce fight ends with Rudolf accidentally felled by his own hard snowball, after which Leo and Bamboe tend him and Leo offers friendship—rejected out of class and color prejudice. The scene shifts to skating, where Rudolf spitefully sends a ball toward thin ice; Leo falls through, Bamboe bravely tries to save him and also goes in, and the episode breaks off with Dirk attempting a risky rescue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76853,908,'Reading ease score: 72.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76853,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76853,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76853,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76854,520,'Letters from a living dead man by David Patterson Hatch is a spiritualist epistolary work written in the early 20th century. It presents purported messages from a recently deceased thinker known as “X,” conveyed through a medium, describing the conditions, laws, and experiences of consciousness after death. Expect vivid accounts of astral travel, teachers and helpers, reincarnation, heavens and hells, and the mechanics of cross‑world communication, with recurring figures like a guiding Teacher and a boy named Lionel.  The opening of this work begins with an introduction from the recorder explaining how the letters started through automatic writing in Paris, the surprising news of “X’s” death, her reluctance and later decision to publish, and her insistence that the communications be judged by their substance. The early letters then unfold: “X” asserts his presence, explains the ease and brightness of the transition, asks for discretion, and teaches safeguards against intrusive astral influences and the mental poise needed for writing. He describes movement and perception in the subtle world; the role of will; the “pattern world” of prototypes; a League that helps the newly dead; and meetings with souls, including Lionel, along with glimpses of a “heaven country” and a Christ vision. He reports visiting archives (a Paracelsus treatise), shaping garments by thought, and warns the newly departed not to revisit their corpses; he relates a marital tangle between a man and his two wives, notes individualized hells, and tells of a devoted couple reunited in a home he built for her. The section closes with reflections on finding God (“God is”), the rhythm of rebirth and eternity, a defense of this controlled collaboration (distinguishing it from indiscriminate mediumship), and a final vignette setting off to witness a great imperial funeral. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76854,908,'Reading ease score: 74.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76854,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76854,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76855,520,'"Monsù Tomè :  racconto" by Anton Giulio Barrili is a novella written in the late 19th century. The tale profiles an aged Piemontese veteran of Napoleon’s wars whose anecdotes swell into a vivid first-person war memoir, centered on the Piedmont front and the defense of Cosseria. Framed by affectionate humor and melancholy, the narrator sketches the veteran’s rituals, pride, and soldierly code before yielding to his battlefield voice. Readers should expect a lively historical yarn about courage, blunders, and camaraderie in the Revolutionary era.  The opening of the story presents the narrator’s youthful memories of an elderly Monsù Tomè in Loano: a solitary former officer with a ceremonious Sunday drinking rite and a store of war stories unlocked by the right prompt. Coaxed by a friend’s mention of a vivandière, he launches into his “Cantami o Diva,” switches to first person, and offers an “eagle’s view” of the early Revolutionary campaigns, criticizing Austrian command while tracing the strategic situation in Savoy and the County of Nice. The focus narrows to the battalion level: Tomè serves among the grenadiers of Monferrato under the cool, charismatic Colonel Filippo Del Carretto. After a night march from Montezemolo through Millesimo, they clash at Montecàla with Augereau’s advancing French, then fall back to the ruins of Cosseria, where “Avanti, Monferrato!” drives a fierce bayonet counter. Captain Rubin is killed, the defenders fortify the shattered castle, and Tomè details officers, shortages, and the critical lack of water and ammunition. A parley with General Provera weighs their thin resources and doubtful support from Colli, setting a tense stage for the impending defense. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76855,908,'Reading ease score: 42.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76855,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76855,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76855,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76856,520,'"How to get a government position by Anonymous" is a practical guidebook and civil-service pamphlet written in the late 19th century. It explains how to enter U.S. government employment through the merit-based Civil Service, focusing on competitive examinations, application procedures, eligibility, and basic preparation.  The guide highlights the stability and regular hours of government work, then explains how competitive rankings determine appointments and how to request applications for departmental, customs, and postal services. It outlines eligibility rules (age limits, citizenship, character references, veteran exceptions, and physical fitness) and lists the personal details required on the application. It sets out strict examination conduct and marking procedures with a limited appeal process, and it specifies subjects for different roles—copyist, clerk, postal worker, carrier, and messenger—along with optional technical tests. General rules forbid political or religious tests and penalize fraud. Practical study advice stresses dictation practice, spelling, common abbreviations, U.S. civics, and especially arithmetic, noting that solid grammar-school skills, refreshed with focused review, should suffice. Short advertisements for related manuals and a novelty item close the pamphlet, followed by a brief transcriber’s note. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76856,908,'Reading ease score: 44.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76856,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76857,520,'I, Mars by Ray Bradbury is a science fiction short story written in the mid-20th century. The story centers on isolation and self-inflicted psychological torment as a stranded colonist on Mars confronts his own voice preserved in machines.  Emil Barton, left alone on Mars after an atomic war recalls Earth’s colonists, survives by wiring the planet with telephones and tapes of his younger self to simulate companionship. Decades later, now old and frail, those recordings begin to taunt him, reminding him of youth and hope while exposing his present despair. He once tried to animate empty towns with sounds, scents, and even robots—only to drown the robots when the delusion became unbearable. Lured by a fake call from a “rocket captain,” he drives across Mars hoping for rescue, finds only empty tarmacs and more machines, and in a final rage smashes phones until his heart fails. The last voices left are two youthful Bartons, mechanically linked, cheerfully talking and laughing, oblivious to the real man’s death. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76857,908,'Reading ease score: 86.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76857,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76857,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76857,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76858,520,'"The spirit-rapper; an autobiography" by Orestes Augustus Brownson is a fictional autobiography written in the mid-19th century. It examines the rise of mesmerism and modern Spiritualism through the first-person account of a scientifically minded New Yorker who is drawn from curiosity into clairvoyance, spirit-rapping, and table-turning. Alongside ministers, reformers, and social radicals, he probes the claims and perils of these phenomena, weighing science, faith, and moral consequences.  The opening of the narrative presents a prefatory statement that the work blends fact with fictional “machinery” to scrutinize spirit-manifestations and their links to reformist enthusiasms. The narrator then recounts his sober scientific education and early scepticism, his introduction to a French mesmerist’s convincing demonstrations, and a circle of interlocutors debating whether the effects arise from imagination, a human “demonic” force, or something darker. As mesmerism spreads, a lighthearted practitioner, Jack Wheatley, kills his fiancée by overusing it and is haunted by her apparition, while the narrator himself develops an intense desire for hidden power. Moving among Philadelphia reformers, he witnesses and conducts experiments that surpass mere suggestion—remote mesmerism, magnetized objects inducing trance, and clairvoyance that exceeds any “rapport.” He learns automatic speech and writing under a foreign will, then shifts to using objects as instruments, producing table movement and coded raps, and is told he can gain greater knowledge only if he purifies his motives—just as the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76858,908,'Reading ease score: 55.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76858,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76858,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76858,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76859,520,'"The false assumptions of "democracy" by Anthony M. Ludovici is a political treatise written in the early 20th century. It argues that modern democratic ideals rest on muddled language and seductive slogans, and urges a rigorous redefinition of key political terms. The work challenges egalitarianism and socialism, defends private property as a life-affirming principle, and seeks to disentangle justice, freedom, and equality from popular misconceptions.  The opening of the treatise frames its project with a supportive letter and a preface that, in the shadow of the Great War, calls for a sober “stock-taking” of ideals and a reclarification of language to avert social breakdown. The introduction claims that the loss of a common culture has emptied abstract words—freedom, justice, equality—of meaning, turning them into emotional “missiles,” with journalism and propaganda accelerating the decay; Rousseau’s misuse of “Nature,” “Freedom,” and “Man” is cited as a model of how such confusion births revolution. The first chapter defends private property as the biological and moral expression of growth and self-extension, criticizes abolitionist schemes as symptoms of cultural exhaustion, concedes real abuses (misallocated power, degrading labor, unhealthy poverty, unearned advantages), and proposes changing social valuations so wealth does not automatically equal power. Subsequent early chapters argue that “immanent justice” is a myth because nature is amoral and justice is purely social, and that equality (including “equality of opportunity”) is incoherent beyond mathematics—leaving only equal protection of interests under law as a sensible aim. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76859,908,'Reading ease score: 40.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76859,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76859,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76860,520,'"Vidas cruzadas :  Cinedrama en dos partes, dividida la primera en diez cuadros…." by Jacinto Benavente is a play written in the early 20th century. Set among fashionable resorts and Madrid salons, it explores the collision of old aristocracy and new money through a poised, impoverished noblewoman, Eugenia Castrojeriz, her reckless brother Manolo, and the wealthy upstart Enrique Garcimora. Pride, class, and desire entangle them as an allegorical “Ladrón de sueños” reveals what their waking selves deny.  The opening of the play unfolds on a Biarritz dancing terrace, where two onlookers frame the action with sharp social commentary before introducing Eugenia, her loyal friend Guillermina, and Enrique’s pursuit. A nocturnal dream interlude, guided by the “Ladrón de sueños,” exposes the mutual attraction and clashing pride of Eugenia and Enrique through a queen-and-pirate metaphor. Meanwhile, Manolo’s gambling spirals: Isidoro begs Enrique for help, and Enrique’s valet Damián discovers Manolo has stolen an envelope of cash, leading to a heated confrontation that Manolo first denies and then, in private, bitterly repents while hinting at suicide. Warned by Isidoro, Eugenia rushes to plead with Enrique, and the scene closes with her waiting in his study under the dream-thief’s light. At the start of the second part, a Madrid party hums with gossip about Eugenia’s sudden distance from her protectors, signaling that the scandal’s social aftershocks are spreading. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76860,500,'https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vidas_cruzadas_(obra_de_teatro)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76860,908,'Reading ease score: 61.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76860,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76860,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76861,520,'"Eccentricities of genius : memories of famous men and women of the platform…" by Major J. B. Pond is a collection of reminiscences and character sketches written in the late 19th century. From the vantage point of a leading lecture manager, it surveys orators, preachers, actors, humorists, explorers, and authors who animated the lyceum and the stage, mixing backstage anecdotes with public portraits. The emphasis is on the quirks, habits, and magnetism that made them draw crowds, and on the culture of the lecture platform itself. The result is a lively insider’s tour of the era’s great public voices.  The opening of the volume presents title matter, a contents and illustration list, and a playful preface stitched from other writers’ prefaces, then shifts to Pond’s own origin story: a frontier, abolitionist upbringing; a printer’s apprenticeship; time in “Bleeding Kansas”; and later journalism in Utah that led to managing Ann Eliza Young’s sensational lectures and a swift national stir. He recounts acquiring the Redpath Bureau, his credo for approaching famous people, and signals the book’s scope across orators, clergy, women lecturers, humorists, explorers, actors, and authors. The first profiles elevate the “triumvirate” of Gough, Beecher, and Wendell Phillips, then sketch Garrison, Sumner, Depew, Horace Porter, Ingersoll, Frederick Douglass, and Booker T. Washington with brisk judgments and vivid anecdotes. The section on Beecher becomes an intimate travel memoir, including Southern appearances where initial hostility turned to ovations—most memorably in Richmond—showcasing Beecher’s courage, persuasive power, and gift for reconciliation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76861,908,'Reading ease score: 65.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76861,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76861,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76862,520,'"Palkankoroitus :  1-näytöksinen pila by Jalmari Finne" is a one-act comedic play (a farce) from the early 20th century. It satirizes the economics of matrimony in a small-town school setting, where a pay bonus for married teachers tempts a cautious bachelor to consider wedlock for financial gain.  Antti, a middle-aged schoolteacher, decides to propose to his long-time servant Juhanna after learning that married teachers earn more, and he asks his eloquent friend Jaakko the cantor to deliver the proposal. Jaakko’s florid speech moves Juhanna, who accepts, and the new couple immediately tally household plans. But when Juhanna outlines hiring a maid and budgeting for clothes, travel, and “extras,” Antti calculates the added costs exceed the bonus. He recoils, tries to back out, and Juhanna erupts in indignation, denounces him, and storms off. Jaakko returns to find the match in ruins, and Antti concludes—wryly—that the trouble lies less in marriage than in women, ending the farce on a sharp comic note. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76862,908,'Reading ease score: 63.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76862,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76862,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76863,520,'"Uskottomuus :  3-näytöksinen draama" by Lauri Haarla is a three-act stage play written in the early 20th century. It centers on a fallen patriarch, Abraham Svart, and his adult children—devout Rauha, idealistic scholar Eelis, hard-nosed businessman Asser, and pleasure-seeking Kaarin—as they wrestle with faith, pride, desire, and the stain of family ruin. The title theme of infidelity triggers a moral crisis that pits spiritual ideals against raw human passion and social survival.  The opening of the play presents the Svart family in a shabby attic room where Abraham drinks and spars with Rauha’s religious fervor, while Kaarin schemes for a night out and Eelis readies his future. Asser arrives and coldly refuses to finance Eelis’s philosophical work, splitting the brothers; Agnes, Eelis’s fiancée, returns shaken and confesses an affair, prompting Eelis—stung and humiliated—to strike her and flee inwardly. Act Two shifts to the old mill cottage, where gossip swirls, Rauha’s long-lost love Eerik reappears repentant and is quietly forgiven, and Eelis obsessively watches for Agnes, torn between pride and longing. When Eelis moves to fetch her, Abraham blocks him and, to harden his resolve, ends the opening by revealing that Eelis’s mother was unfaithful in the same way. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76863,908,'Reading ease score: 51.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76863,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76864,520,'"German Composition: A Theoretical and Practical Guide to the Art of Translating English Prose into German" by Hermann Lange is a language-instruction manual written in the late 19th century. It teaches students to render English prose into clear, idiomatic German through a blend of concise grammar rules, guided practice, and carefully chosen texts. Aimed at classroom learners and exam candidates, it emphasizes method, accuracy, and style over word-for-word translation.  The opening of the manual sets out its purpose, audience, and method in two prefaces, highlighting careful text selection, analytic translation, and extensive notes, along with a synopsis of the then-new German spelling reforms. It then gives explicit directions for use (viva voce preparation with notes, written translation, correction, and a second fluent oral rendering without notes), a lesson plan, and a list of abbreviations. The instructional content begins with brief rules on notation and core grammar points, followed by early sections that pair short English extracts with detailed guidance on issues like the passive with werden, the “zu”-infinitive (supine), rendering the gerund, pronoun and article use, relative clauses, and idiomatic choices—immediately modeling how to think through and produce correct German. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76864,908,'Reading ease score: 73.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76864,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76864,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76864,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76865,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0334: Onder de goudzoekers" by Matull, Blankensee, and Hageman is an adventure novel written in the early 20th century. Set amid an Alaskan gold rush, it follows the gentleman-thief Lord Lister (Raffles), his companion Charly Brand, and their formidable ally Henderson as they trade London’s streets for the frozen Tanana and the lawless camp of Meadow Hill. The tale pivots on gold fever, frontier violence, and a looming rescue as the trio confront predatory outlaws and protect a preacher’s daughter in a world ruled by sled dogs, saloons, and the gun.  The opening of the book paints a stark Arctic landscape where Raffles and his men, with their wolfhound Fang, reach the homestead of the hospitable trapper Jack Brunt and his young wife before pushing on to Meadow Hill. Along the way we learn Raffles fled London for wilderness freedom, having crossed the Atlantic in his experimental “Devil of the Air,” and we hear grim talk of gold rumors, scant policing, and rough vigilante codes. In Meadow Hill they lodge at Perry Finn’s inn, clash with local bully Mike Penalty, and witness the brutal rhythm of saloon life at Bill Rednose’s—complete with a knife murder and predatory “hostesses.” They meet trapper Tom Hatters, fiancé of Jessie Barry, the devoted daughter of the settlement’s courageous preacher. Overhearing that Mike and an accomplice are gambling over Jessie, Raffles decides to warn her father; but when they reach the parsonage, Jessie has been lured away by Dolly Patterson’s message. Racing to the dying Patterson’s cabin, they find the old man helpless and learn Jessie has just been abducted by Mike and his gang. Raffles resolves on immediate pursuit, turning the hunt from wild game to men. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76865,908,'Reading ease score: 73.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76865,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76865,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76865,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76865,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76866,520,'"Winter" by Jac. P. Thijsse is an illustrated natural history guide written in the early 20th century. The volume closes a seasonal cycle and explores how winter reshapes the Dutch landscape, from dunes and shores to gardens, parks, and forests. It blends clear identification notes with practical advice on observing birds, plants, fungi, and tracks, and even on welcoming wildlife to the garden. This is for curious walkers, gardeners, and young naturalists who enjoy learning by looking.  The opening of the book sets the scene with a foreword that frames this volume as the capstone of a seasonal series, then slips into a lively tour of early winter. It describes the first great leaf-fall after autumn storms, children’s play, and the patient wait for true frost, before guiding the reader to late mushrooms and earthstars, and to beachcombing after gales that wash up kittiwakes, auks, puffins, and gannets. Indoors and at garden walls, it highlights winter flowers—chrysanthemums, primulas, cyclamens, a dry-blooming arum, forced bulbs—and outdoor bloomers like winter jasmine and hellebores, plus holly and berry shrubs for birds. It teaches how to tell box from true conifers, and how to distinguish Thujopsis, cypress, thuja, cryptomeria, and various pines and spruces, then shifts onto the ice: skating, peering through clear ice at life below, providing water and food for garden birds, and watching hawks hunt. Tracks in snow lead to a portrait of winter mammals—rabbits, hares, deer, foxes, otter, and mustelids—balancing their harms and benefits. With a January thaw, the focus turns to lichens and true mosses, the beauty of winter seedheads, gall wasps at alder buds, and the alder’s catkins and “cones,” before a bustling chorus of winter flocks—siskins, long-tailed tits, great and blue tits, marsh/coal/crested tits, treecreepers, wrens, and nuthatches—plus occasional rarities like waxwings and nutcrackers. The excerpt closes as crossbills set to work prising open conifer cones. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76866,908,'Reading ease score: 69.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76866,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76867,520,'"Tough yarns, vol. 2 (of 2) : A series of naval tales and sketches to please…" by The Old Sailor is a collection of maritime short stories written in the early 19th century. The volume spins lively, often moralized yarns of seafaring life—mixing humor, horror, sentiment, and action—drawn from Royal Navy service and coastal communities. Expect storms, battles, shipwrecks, and brushes with superstition, told in vigorous first-person voices. It will appeal to readers who enjoy nautical adventure and period storytelling.  The opening of the volume presents several distinct tales. In Ghost Stories, a young seaman admits a childhood terror of apparitions, only to have it cured by hard experience—sleeping unknowingly beside a corpse, mistaking a giant goat and a moving crate for spectres, and discovering a “coffin” on a Sierra Leone road is merely an arm-chest with a drowsy volunteer inside. Frere du Diable shifts to Italy, where Galeazzo and his fierce wife Camilla, brutalized by war, lead guerillas against the French and briefly ally with Sir Sidney Smith, ending in grim, vengeful justice on a would‑be assassin. The Fisherman’s Family returns to Cornwall for a storm‑tossed rescue saga: a fishing smack aids a wreck in a hurricane, survives a hair‑breadth surf landing, and the family’s joy is crowned by the reappearance of a long‑lost, wealthy brother who becomes their benefactor. The Red Flag at the Fore begins a sailor’s memoir of ambition and hard knocks—from chaotic midshipmen’s life and a deadly gale that sweeps men from the foremast, to failed rescues, Indian Ocean cruising, and the long, grinding path to promotion—setting the tone for further adventures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76867,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76867,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76867,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76867,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76868,520,'"The Little Review, August 1917 (Vol. 4, No. 4) by Various" is an avant‑garde literary magazine issue from the early 20th century. It is a modernist arts publication featuring poetry, criticism, and experimental prose and drama. The likely topic is the defense and exploration of new artistic methods and tastes against mainstream expectations.  This issue opens with W. B. Yeats’s Seven Poems, a poignant sequence around a dying lady that blends wit, ritual, and mortality. Ezra Pound’s List of Books offers sharp criticism and advocacy, discussing John Butler Yeats’s letters, James Joyce’s A Portrait, translations of Japanese Noh drama, Arnold Dolmetsch’s performance practice, and T. S. Eliot’s Prufrock. John Rodker’s Theatre Muet presents imagistic, silent‑stage tableaux; Pound’s Stark Realism sketches satirical American types; and Iris Barry contributes spare, observant poems on desire, work, marriage, and decline. Margaret Anderson’s editorial, What the Public Doesn’t Want, argues for artistic integrity over public taste, while Louis Gilmore’s Orientale offers a lush, sensuous monologue. The Reader Critic section stages debates on art, propaganda, war writing, and audience, rounding out a concentrated statement of modernist priorities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76868,908,'Reading ease score: 66.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76868,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76868,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76869,520,'"Buddhism by Annie H. Small" is a comparative religious study written in the early 20th century. It presents the core ideas of Buddhism and sets them alongside Christian beliefs, focusing on the origins of suffering, the moral law, the way of self-renunciation, and the meaning of salvation.  The book begins with India and Gautama: his sheltered youth, shock at suffering, rejection of ritual and extreme asceticism, enlightenment under the Bo tree, and his teaching of the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path. It outlines Buddhist ethics for ordinary life (avoiding the ten sins and living kindly, truthfully, and temperately) and the stricter path of the saint (breaking the fetters of self through discipline, taking refuge in Buddha, Law, and Church, and seeking Nirvana). The focus then shifts to Israel and Jesus: the prophetic hope, Jesus’ open, non-ritual life of service, His self-forgetful union with the Father, and the Cross understood as the seed that dies to bring a harvest—fulfilling the universal law of cause and effect through love. The Christian way is self-surrender in daily life, a desire redirected from self to the Father, with no divide between lay and saint; each yielded life becomes new seed for the Kingdom. Poems contrast the two ideals, and a final comparison affirms real resemblances yet a decisive difference: the Buddha as the conqueror who wins knowledge, and the Christ as the revealed Truth and Way. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76869,908,'Reading ease score: 66.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76869,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76869,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76870,520,'"Der Berg der Läuterung" by Emil Ertl is a collection of stories written in the early 20th century. Framed by a Dantean motif of trial and purification, it portrays post–World War I Viennese lives tested by vanity, poverty, and moral choice. The pieces follow elegant and fallen households, clerks and craftsmen, and the uneasy bargains between love, pride, and survival, with figures such as Aimée, her estranged husband Harry, the widowed Berta Larisch, and the ruined friends Ziervogel and Bock at the center.  The opening of the book first presents Die Sofapuppe: Aimée, a wealthy young wife, is unsettled by a Japanese doll that seems to speak, then tracks its maker to a cold attic where she finds her former friend Berta—now a dignified, impoverished war widow with a small son—quietly surviving by crafting luxury puppets. Stirred by shame and impulse, Aimée secretly leaves her diamond rivière in Berta’s sewing basket, only to face her husband’s cold vanity and later receive the necklace back, intact. The next piece, Das Rotkehlchen, shifts to the retired confectioner Ziervogel and his dour friend Bock, ground down by inflation, theft, and merciless bureaucracy; alongside Anna’s tender wish to free a pet robin and her visits to a sick child upstairs, the two men weather a day of petty humiliations that ends with a grim pact to end their lives in the Danube once fair weather comes, even as they bicker about their children and an old, almost comic childhood feud. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76870,908,'Reading ease score: 66.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76870,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76870,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76871,520,'"The magnificent possession by Isaac Asimov" is a humorous science fiction short story written in the early 20th century. It centers on a chemist’s breakthrough in isolating metallic ammonium and creating a brilliant gold-like oxide, setting off a satirical scramble involving industry, politics, and crime.  Walter Sills, a cash-strapped chemist aided by his friend Eugene Taylor, discovers a solvent that lets him separate and briefly stabilize ammonium, then produces a glittering “substitute gold” oxide that promises riches. Newspaper fame draws a predatory industrialist, a blustering ex-congressman, and a notorious gangster into a chaotic night of break-ins and bluff. Though Sills secures his real notes in a bank, the crooks steal decoys. Seeking proof before a big sale, Sills and Taylor plate a spoon with ammonium—only to unleash an indescribably noxious stench when it meets ordinary air, panicking the neighborhood and sending their prospective buyer fleeing. The pair finally wade into the Hudson for clean air, mourning their fiasco yet clinging to the hope that the discovery will still bring renown—and perhaps a fix for the fatal smell. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76871,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magnificent_Possession',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76871,908,'Reading ease score: 71.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76871,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76871,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76871,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76871,654);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58639,'fr.wikipedia','https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._W._Scott');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76872,520,'"Tragedies of sex" by Frank Wedekind is a collection of plays written in the late 19th and early 20th century. Gathering Spring’s Awakening, Earth-Spirit, Pandora’s Box, and Damnation!, it confronts sexual desire, repression, and bourgeois hypocrisy with frank, unsettling drama. The pieces focus on volatile youth and predatory or compromised adults—most notably the schoolchildren Melchior, Wendla, and Moritz, and the magnetic Lulu—to expose how authority and morality deform private life.  The opening of the volume frames the author as an avant-garde provocateur and precursor to Expressionism, then launches into the first stretch of Spring’s Awakening. We meet Wendla, chafing at being forced into adult decorum; schoolboys Melchior and Moritz, who debate sex and struggle under academic pressure; and girls who reveal domestic abuse, especially Martha. Moritz secretly checks the promotion lists and, provisionally passed, swings from relief to dread. In the woods, Melchior and Wendla spar over charity and morality before a disturbing moment in which she asks to be struck and he loses control. Subsequent scenes deepen the sexual awakening and confusion: Melchior’s candid discussions with Moritz (and his tolerant mother), Wendla’s mother’s evasions about where babies come from, Hansy’s furtive self-gratification, and a charged hayloft encounter between Melchior and Wendla. A letter shows Melchior’s mother refusing to fund Moritz’s escape, urging fortitude; Wendla drifts through the garden in dazed, secretive joy; and Moritz, by the river at dusk, edges toward despair. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76872,908,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76872,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76872,651);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76872,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76873,520,'"Wrecked among cannibals in the Fijis :  A narrative of shipwreck & adventure in…" by William Endicott is a historical maritime narrative written in the early 20th century. It recounts a Salem third mate’s beche-de-mer trading voyage across the South Seas, culminating in shipwreck among the Fiji Islands, encounters with warlike communities, and hard-won survival. The volume blends first-hand seafaring adventure with ethnographic observation, and is supplemented by editorial notes, illustrations, and brief vocabularies of local languages.  The opening of the narrative sets the scene with an editor’s introduction to New England’s youthful seafaring culture, the ship Glide’s history, the beche-de-mer trade geared to the Chinese market, and the constant need for arms and vigilance in Fiji. Endicott then begins his log: departing Salem, touching at the Bay of Islands in New Zealand and the Friendly (Tonga) Islands for provisions and interpreters, and entering the reef-laced Fijis. After striking a rock, the Glide is assisted by the Salem brig Quill; the crew constructs a raft, heaves the ship down, and effects makeshift repairs. Shore stations are built to cure beche-de-mer, large numbers of islanders are hired, and trade goods (iron tools, muskets, whale’s teeth) change hands, but early setbacks arrive fast—fires, theft, and shifting to new bays as supplies thin and tensions rise. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76873,908,'Reading ease score: 62.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76873,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76873,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76873,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76874,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is a general-interest illustrated periodical issue written in the early 19th century. It offers accessible, educational essays aimed at broad audiences, touching on antiquities, natural history, science and weather lore, brief biographies, social history, and notable historical incidents.  The issue ranges widely: it opens with a vivid tour of India’s rock-cut sanctuaries, especially the cave-temple of Elephanta, its pillars, Siva sculptures, and comparisons to Ellora. A sustained essay on “The Weather” debunks almanac prophecies, explains practical sky and animal signs (with insights from Davy’s Salmonia), and includes Dr. Jenner’s “Signs of Rain.” A British Museum article presents the musk-ox’s Arctic adaptations and the giraffe’s form and habits. “The Week” offers brief lives of Gellert and Flaxman. A social-history piece reads colonial Virginia through its laws—tobacco as currency, wolf bounties, pillories and ducking-stools, franchise rules, and attempts to force silk culture—underscoring how statutes reveal societal progress. The tragic sinking of the Royal George at Spithead is retold, with Kempenfeldt’s loss and Cowper’s elegy. Short notes close the issue on horse behavior, Bedouin foal care, the 1783 Calabria earthquakes, aging sheep by teeth, and a shy Cavendish anecdote. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76874,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76874,908,'Reading ease score: 52.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76874,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76874,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76874,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76874,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76875,520,'"Monthly supplement of the penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of…" is an illustrated periodical miscellany produced in the early 19th century. It presents short, readable articles and reviews spanning architecture, machinery and industry, natural history, public monuments, travel writing, and contemporary literature, aimed at popular education and curiosity.  The contents range widely. It opens with a report on the Abbey of St. Alban’s—its ancient history, mixed Roman and Norman fabric, recent storm damage, and a public appeal for repairs—followed by a lucid review of Charles Babbage’s “Economy of Machinery and Manufactures,” highlighting the logic of mechanization and memorable examples such as caterpillar-made “lace” and the steam-driven workflow of a London daily paper. A Zoological Society report documents the birth of puma cubs and feeding experiments showing carnivores thrive on one daily meal. A note on Chantrey’s bronze statue of William Pitt precedes “Gleanings in Natural History,” with lively scenes of deer-taking in Richmond Park. Further pieces assess American institutions and finance and describe the booming gold mines of the southern United States; sketch the Calabrias, contrasting their rich resources with social misery; introduce William Cullen Bryant’s poetry (with “To a Waterfowl”) as a refined American voice; and recount Captain Mundy’s Indian tour, mixing camp life, close shaves with thieves, and dramatic hunts involving lions, tigers, and remarkably wise elephants. The supplement closes with publication notices for this affordable, instructive series. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76875,908,'Reading ease score: 49.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76875,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76876,520,'"Webster''s practical forestry :  A popular handbook on the rearing and growth of…." by A. D. Webster is a practical forestry handbook written in the early 20th century. It focuses on profitable and ornamental tree growing in Britain, blending policy advocacy with step-by-step guidance for establishing nurseries, plantations, and timber production. The work emphasizes species choice, site preparation, and cultivation methods aimed at both commercial returns and landscape value.  The opening of the handbook frames forestry as a wartime and postwar necessity, arguing that foreign timber shortages demand large-scale, state-led afforestation of waste lands, with compact blocks to ensure continuous supply and to justify transport, and proposing this work as employment for returning and convalescent service members. It outlines costs, suitable regions, and the economic case for government ownership and planning. The text then turns practical, explaining how to collect, dry, store, and sow seeds (especially conifer cones), offering seed counts and species-by-species timing; how to propagate by seed, cuttings, layers, grafts, and buds; and how to plan and run a home nursery with seasonal tasks. Next it details forming plantations: setting boundaries, laying out roads and fences, draining and levelling, clearing vegetation, pitting vs. notch planting, timing by site conditions, and avoiding too-deep planting. Finally, it begins its list of the best economic trees, describing growth conditions, timber qualities, and uses for oak, ash, beech, sycamore, Spanish chestnut, elm, alder, birch, and the cricket-bat willow. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76876,908,'Reading ease score: 52.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76876,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76876,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76876,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76877,520,'"I simboli :  in rapporto alla storia e filosofia del diritto, alla psicologia…." by Guglielmo Ferrero is a scientific publication written in the late 19th century. This essay investigates how symbols arise from human psychology and social needs, linking them to the development of law, religion, language, and institutions. It advances the idea that the law of least mental effort and mental inertia govern symbolic practices, with real consequences for justice, politics, and collective error.  The opening of the work presents a brief preface defining the book as a preliminary exploration and crediting Paolo Marzolo’s Saggio sui segni as its chief inspiration, while arguing that understanding symbolism can mitigate social injustices born of intellectual weaknesses. The Introduction develops two governing principles: humans avoid mental labor (the law of least effort) and the mind is inert unless stirred by sensory input; attention is rare and tiring, most thinking is unconscious association, institutions evolve by small, practical steps, and sensations revive ideas and emotions (illustrated with hypnosis, dynamogenesis, and everyday examples). Part I begins by explaining “symbols of proof”: before writing and archives, societies used visible acts as evidence—delivery of a clod for land transfer, touching a door or hinge to convey a house, leading a bride from her home, couvade as a public claim of paternity, clothing or passing a limb over an adoptee, offering keys or weapons to signal submission, handing weapons to free a slave, opening doors or sending a freed person to a crossroads, rekindling home fire to mark new domicile, and throwing stones to denounce new works. The next chapter turns to “descriptive” symbols and primitive mnemonics (notches, knots, quipus, marked stones and columns, family staffs, spears and banners for investiture), showing how such concrete signs substituted for documents; it closes as the discussion moves from mnemonic devices toward the emergence of pictographic writing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76877,908,'Reading ease score: 24.8 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76877,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76877,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76877,687);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76877,688);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76878,520,'"Von Sonnen und Sonnenstäubchen :  Kosmische Wanderungen" by Wilhelm Bölsche is a collection of popular-science essays written in the early 20th century. The volume ranges across astronomy, geology, evolution, and animal life, blending travel vignette, philosophy, and clear exposition to make modern science vivid to general readers. Its unifying theme is a human-scaled tour through cosmic and natural history, from suns to “sun-dust,” showing how scientific facts cohere into a larger, poetic vision of the world.  The opening of the volume begins with a preface that calls Earth and humanity “sun-dust” and states the aim of throwing clarifying light onto the heaped “dust” of modern facts so they shine as a unified whole. It then follows a night hike in the Riesengebirge, where a tear in the fog reveals the Milky Way and sparks a sweeping meditation from ancient myth and medieval spheres to the Age of Discovery, Copernican astronomy, Newtonian law, energy conservation, geological deep time, and evolutionary ascent. Using striking analogies—the Berlin city map to scale the solar system, and a coin’s edge to explain why the Milky Way appears as a bright band—the narrative reviews ideas from Democritus, Dante, Copernicus, Galileo, Bruno, Newton, Robert Mayer, Kant, Herschel, Humboldt, Kirchhoff, Bunsen, Draper, and Scheiner. It separates gaseous nebulae within our stellar system from true “island universes” and, via spectroscopy (Fraunhofer lines) and photography, argues that the Andromeda nebula is a distant star system beyond our own, before turning to the pitfalls of perception and the newly fixed shapes of nebulae, leading toward the famous Ring Nebula. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76878,908,'Reading ease score: 61.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76878,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76878,667);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76878,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76878,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76878,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76879,520,'De erfenis eener moeder by P. J. Andriessen is a didactic juvenile novel written in the late 19th century. It follows an Amsterdam family that falls from comfort into straitened circumstances, focusing on the steadfast daughter Helène, her cheerful brother Rudolf, and the moral contrast with his principled schoolfriend Ernst; the “inheritance” of the title is less money than the mother’s values of duty, prudence, and kindness.  The opening of the novel sets its moral tone with a preface calling it a simple family story for youth. We first see Rudolf at boarding school beside the honorable Ernst, who refuses to borrow for a rowing excursion, while Rudolf enjoys a lively outing and, later, a glittering dance at his uncle’s house where their delicate mother’s frailty is noted. The family’s fortunes abruptly collapse: Mr. Nederhorst loses his wealth, friends fall away, and plans are made—Rudolf remains at school, Leonie goes to an uncle, while Helène stays with her ailing mother to help. Their loyal old servant Trui insists on serving without wages, and the family leaves Amsterdam for modest lodgings in Weesp, where Helène assumes household duties and tends the younger children. In this new setting she meets the kindly widower Dr. Faminga, who offers sympathy and measured support, visits her mother, and quietly marks Helène’s sixteenth birthday with a thoughtful gift—hinting at benevolence and the strengthening of character that will guide the story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76879,908,'Reading ease score: 79.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76879,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76879,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76880,520,'"The Monist, Vol. 2, 1891-1892 : A quarterly magazine" by Various is a philosophical and scientific periodical written in the late 19th century. It gathers essays, debates, correspondence, and reviews that probe logic, monism, psychology, jurisprudence, religion, politics, and the relation between science and philosophy. Readers can expect rigorous arguments about how knowledge is formed, how law and society evolve, and how contemporary political forces shape public life.  The opening of the volume moves from a major study of logic to essays on ethics, law, and U.S. politics. The first essay argues that modern science’s success contrasts with a crisis of intellectual authority, criticizes formal and purely inductive logic, and defends a “transcendental” approach that treats thought as the evolving meaning of facts, urging a rapprochement between science and a critical logic akin to Hegel’s. Next comes a probing analysis of will and reason, rejecting the idea that reason is merely prohibitive or mere calculation, challenging hedonism and empty maxims, and proposing that “reasonable” action expresses a coherent scheme of life shaped by dominant, organizing ideas. A third piece outlines ethnological jurisprudence: extending legal study to all peoples (especially so‑called primitive societies), identifying cross‑cultural legal parallels (e.g., marriage by capture, blood‑vengeance, ordeals), and using them to reconstruct the early development of law and to ground a new, comparative philosophy of law. The section on American politics depicts parties, machines, and voting blocs, explains race and immigration dynamics, shows how capital, patronage, and bribery distort elections, and yet points to reforms like the Australian ballot and to the healthy tension between centralizing and decentralizing forces as signs of democratic resilience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76880,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Monist',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76880,908,'Reading ease score: 46.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76880,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76880,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76880,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76880,689);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76881,520,'"The Monist, Vol. 3, 1892-1893 :  A quarterly magazine" by Various is a philosophical and scientific periodical written in the late 19th century. It gathers essays, discussions, correspondence, and reviews on monism and its implications for science, psychology, mathematics, religion, and culture. Readers encounter debates over chance versus necessity, the relation of mind and matter, education and national thought, and contemporary European intellectual currents.  The opening of the volume presents Charles S. Peirce’s “Man’s Glassy Essence,” which argues for absolute chance and continuity, critiques rigid atomic impenetrability, applies the virial theorem, and proposes a molecular account of protoplasm to bridge physical processes with feeling and habit—casting natural laws as habits of mind and suggesting general ideas can function like shared or “corporate” personalities. Next, E. D. Cope’s “The Future of Thought in America” warns that isolation, conformity to majority opinion, and political timidity threaten intellectual progress, urging stronger ideals, freer criticism, and better leadership in education and the press, with churches serving as imperfect but vital carriers of ideals. Felix L. Oswald’s “Mental Mummies” attributes persistent religious conservatism to hereditary and historical habit, explaining why cultures differ in receptivity to reform. Alfred Binet’s “The Nervous Ganglia of Insects” inaugurates a detailed anatomical program using sections and comparative anatomy, outlining the structure of the prothoracic ganglion (ventral columns, dorsal lobe, connective filaments, crural nerves) to relate neural architecture to locomotor function. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76881,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Monist',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76881,908,'Reading ease score: 46.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76881,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76881,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76881,688);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76882,520,'"The life and times of the Rev. John Wesley, M.A., founder of the Methodists.…." by Rev. L. Tyerman is a historical biography written in the late 19th century. It chronicles John Wesley’s later years and the expansion of Methodism through his travels, letters, sermons, and conferences, highlighting disputes over Calvinism, Christian perfection, and adherence to the Church of England. Drawing on journals and correspondence, it shows how Wesley organized and financed the movement while extending its reach in Britain and abroad.  The opening of the volume concentrates on 1768, tracing Wesley at 65 through conciliatory exchanges with Whitefield and Berridge, counsel to Lady Huntingdon, the sermon “The Good Steward,” and an energetic tour from Chatham to the North and into Scotland preaching to soldiers and vast crowds. It presents his belief in supernatural testimony (via the Sunderland apparition case), firm advocacy of Christian perfection without separating from the Church, and a stream of pointed letters (to Fletcher, his brother Charles, and critics like Thomas Adam). It prints his 1768 will and recounts the Bristol Conference—framed by his urgent dash to visit his ailing wife—which set policies on preachers trading, revived field and early-morning preaching, enforced discipline, fasting, and pastoral visitation. The narrative also touches overseas beginnings through Laurence Coughlan’s work in Newfoundland, the Oxford student expulsions and ensuing pamphlet war, and the opening of Lady Huntingdon’s Trevecca college. Throughout, decisions about chapels (such as retaining Spitalfields), burdensome debts, and even congregational singing reveal the practical strains of a rapidly growing movement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76882,908,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76882,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76882,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76882,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76882,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76882,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76883,520,'"Pelle Erobreren 3: Den store Kamp" by Martin Andersen Nexø is a novel written in the early 20th century. It likely follows the young shoemaker Pelle as he comes of age in industrial Copenhagen, awakening to the labor movement while balancing poverty, pride, and desire. Around him gather vivid working-class figures—Hanne, her mother, the feckless Pipmanden, and the idealistic Morten—framing a story of solidarity, love, and social struggle.  The opening of the novel plunges us into the tenement known as “Arken,” a damp courtyard world of children’s games, sewer-breath, and the flute of the haunted Vinslev. Pelle appears as a generous, curious newcomer to the city, delivering piecework, witnessing a confused worker protest and police pushback, and—spurred by a boss’s anti-union warning—joining the fragile shoemakers’ union. He reunites with Morten, who gives him a stirring view of the city and of workers’ power, and then spends an evening amid the Arken’s neighbors, drawn to Hanne’s teasing warmth. The next day brings comic misery (his trousers pawned by Pipmanden), a rescue by friendly neighbors, and an excursion to Dyrehaven: sunlight, forest, and a mass socialist rally that intoxicates Pelle while Hanne drifts into a trance-like fascination with a striking stranger; later, in a dance tent, Pelle jealously wards the man off, and the trio returns, the bond between Pelle and Hanne both tender and uncertain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76883,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelle_the_Conqueror_(novel) https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelle_Erobreren_(roman)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76883,908,'Reading ease score: 87.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76883,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76883,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76884,520,'"Relation d''un voyage dans la Marmarique, la Cyrénaïque, et les oasis d''Audjelah…" by J. R. Pacho is an exploratory travel narrative and archaeological-geographical report written in the early 19th century. It documents a scientific journey across Marmarica, Cyrenaica, and the desert oases, combining maps, site drawings, inscriptions, and topographical and botanical observations with comparisons to classical sources. The work centers on field exploration of ruins, landscapes, and tribes, aiming to clarify the antiquity and geography of a little-known region.  The opening of the volume presents a royal dedication and a substantial biographical notice recounting the author’s path from aspiring artist to explorer, his Oasis expeditions, the daring traverse from the Egyptian coast into Cyrenaica and back, and the later reception of his work by European learned societies—alongside the melancholy account of his early death. It then shifts to the author’s foreword, outlining motives, prior partial attempts by other travelers, the patrons and consular support that enabled the journey, the intended methods (accurate mapping, drawings, epigraphy), and acknowledgments to scholars who would annotate the findings. Finally, the introduction sketches the region’s physical contrast between desert and the green Djebel Akhdar, the foundation and flowering of Cyrene, political turns under Greek, Ptolemaic, and Roman power, economic staples like silphium, the city’s moral drift (Aristippus’s hedonism), the presence of Jewish communities and early Christianity (including heterodox sects), and the long decline through raids, misrule, and, ultimately, the Islamic conquest. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76884,908,'Reading ease score: 62.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76884,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76884,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76884,659);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76885,520,'"Dead-sea fruit, Vol. 1 (of 3)" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Eustace Thorburn, a brilliant but nameless young man whose mother’s death drives him to uncover his parentage and avenge her wrongs. Running alongside is a high-society thread about Harold Jerningham, his estranged wife Emily, and editor Laurence Desmond, whose Platonic attachment to Emily tests public decorum and private feeling. The book explores identity, ambition, seduction, and reputation across quiet Belgian canals and London’s drawing rooms.  At the start of the novel, Eustace teaches in serene Villebrumeuse until a black-edged letter summons his grief: his mother is dead, and he vows to confront the unknown father who abandoned her. Back in London’s mean suburb, he studies her papers—tender family letters and a cache from a man signing “H.,” an author who courted Celia Mayfield in Bayham, promised a secret marriage, and led to her ruin. His uncle, the gifted but dissipated journalist Daniel Mayfield, confirms there was no marriage, recalls finding Celia in London with infant Eustace, and secures the young man a post as secretary to scholar Théodore de Bergerac through their friend, editor Laurence Desmond. Interwoven chapters sketch Harold Jerningham’s luxurious but broken marriage and Emily Jerningham’s guarded bond with Desmond; and the opening closes with Eustace in Bayham, tracking the old scandal to Celia’s confidante Sarah Kimber—now Mrs. Willows—for the answers he needs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76885,908,'Reading ease score: 63.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76885,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76885,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76886,520,'"Dead-sea fruit, Vol. 2 (of 3)" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century. It contrasts a jaded aristocrat’s disillusion with the bright hopes of youth, entwining a potential cross-class romance with sharp glimpses of London’s theatrical world and social pretenses. The story centers on Harold Jerningham, the weary owner of Greenlands; Eustace Thorburn, an idealistic young secretary; Helen de Bergerac, his amiable pupil; and editor Laurence Desmond, whose path crosses that of struggling actress Lucy Alford. Themes of ambition, jealousy, friendship, and the bitter aftertaste of pleasure run beneath a refined country-house drama and a gritty city subplot.  The opening of the novel follows Jerningham’s return to his neglected estate on his birthday, where he meets Eustace reading Plato and then visits his old friend, M. de Bergerac, and Helen at the Grange. Sensing a mutual attraction between Helen and Eustace, Jerningham questions the wisdom of housing a handsome, gifted secretary so close to the innocent heiress, while De Bergerac defends the young man’s honour and usefulness to his scholarly work. The scene shifts to London, where Laurence Desmond secures a future engagement for aspiring actress Lucy Alford, then publicly rebukes a coarse amateur “star” and a sycophantic manager who try to displace Lucy—an encounter that costs the theatre both leading ladies. After an uneasy Christmas at the home of the jealous Mrs. Jerningham, Desmond learns Lucy’s father has been arrested for debt; he goes at night to comfort Lucy, arranges to take her to the prison, and quietly promises funds for her rent and provincial engagement. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76886,908,'Reading ease score: 67.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76886,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76886,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76886,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76887,520,'"Dead-sea fruit, Vol. 3 (of 3)" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written in the late 19th century. It is a sensation tale of love, betrayal, and social constraint, centering on Eustace Thorburn’s search for the truth about his parents while interweaving the fates of Harold and Emily Jerningham, the principled editor Laurence Desmond, and the orphaned actress Lucy Alford. Themes of illegitimacy, honour, jealousy, and the friction between feeling and propriety drive the characters toward painful choices.  The opening of the novel follows Eustace as he reads a damning memoir (“Disappointments of Dion”) that lays bare his mother’s abandonment by a selfish lover and hints at a Scottish tie that could legitimize her union; shaken by a chance likeness and encounter with Harold Jerningham, he resolves to consult family, seek the Scottish scene, and leave to make his own name before daring to court Helen de Bergerac. The scene then shifts to River Lawn, where Emily Jerningham becomes benefactress to Lucy after her father’s death, while Laurence, who brought Lucy help, keeps a strained distance. Lucy quits the stage to train as a governess; Emily’s nagging “family cough” lingers despite a doctor’s cautions. A radiant week of Thames outings draws Lucy and Laurence into a quiet, mutual attachment that he, bound by a prior obligation of honour, struggles to suppress. When Emily secures Lucy a distant post in Ireland and overhears the pair, Laurence finally admits his love yet declares they must part, fixing the emotional conflict that will carry the story forward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76887,908,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76887,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76887,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76887,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76888,520,'"Before the Most Holy = (Coram Sanctissimo)" by Mother Mary Loyola is a collection of Catholic devotional meditations written in the early 20th century. Centered on Eucharistic adoration, it offers intimate, practical guidance for “visits” to the Blessed Sacrament and for cultivating a living friendship with Christ present in the tabernacle. Mixing brief prose meditations with occasional verse, it encourages praise, contrition, thanksgiving, and confident petition, especially amid distraction and spiritual dryness.  The opening of the work frames the practice historically through an editor’s preface, noting how visits to the Blessed Sacrament developed gradually and explaining that the book’s aim is to help ordinary people pray simply and sincerely. The first chapters then model conversational prayer: urging frequent, affectionate visits to Jesus, translating everyday concerns into dialogue with Him, and welcoming readers to bring worries, defeats, and small victories to His Heart. Themes include praise in trial, readiness to share Christ’s chalice (“Possumus”), His desire for companionship in the tabernacle, bringing practical cares into prayer (“What things?”), trust in faith over feelings, resilience after failure and gratitude after grace, and the courage to follow truth. Interwoven poems and reflections move through neglect, night adoration, Divine providence, the lavish “improvidence” of Eucharistic love, inner transformation, darkness and dereliction met with filial trust, the gravity of His Second Coming, and a final turn to see the world sanctified by Christ’s hidden Presence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76888,908,'Reading ease score: 74.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76888,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76889,520,'"Caroling Dusk: An Anthology of Verse by Negro Poets" by Countee Cullen is an anthology of poetry written in the early 20th century. It assembles established and emerging African American voices to showcase the breadth of themes, forms, and aesthetics flourishing during the Harlem Renaissance. Framed by brief biographical notes, the selections highlight a living tradition that stretches from Paul Laurence Dunbar to a rising generation, emphasizing both literary craft and cultural self-definition.  The opening of the anthology presents acknowledgments followed by a substantial foreword in which the editor situates the collection within the Negro artistic “renaissance,” rejects the notion of a single “Negro school” of poetry, notes the decline of dialect verse, and stresses variety within the English-language tradition. A contents list leads into self-written biographical notes and poems, beginning with Paul Laurence Dunbar (including “We Wear the Mask” and “Sympathy”), then Joseph S. Cotter, Sr., James Weldon Johnson (notably the sermonic “The Creation”), W. E. B. Du Bois’s lament “A Litany of Atlanta,” and William Stanley Braithwaite’s brief lyrics. Subsequent pages introduce assertive and contemplative work by J. E. McCall (“The New Negro”), Angelina Weld Grimké, Anne Spencer, Mary Effie Lee Newsome, John Frederick Matheus, Fenton Johnson, Jessie Fauset, and Alice Dunbar Nelson, blending themes of nature, love, urban life, protest, and spiritual seeking. The excerpt closes as Georgia Douglas Johnson’s biographical note and early poems foreground service, hope, and resilience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76889,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caroling_Dusk',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76889,908,'Reading ease score: 72.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76889,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76889,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76890,520,'"Puck" by Marie Ovink-Soer is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. Set in The Hague, it follows spirited Jootje “Puck” van Vorden and the warm Canneheuvel household as everyday frictions, friendships, and small moral tests shape the children’s character, especially Puck’s pride and temper. The focus is domestic: sibling bonds, the influence of friends, relations with servants, and the gentle guidance of caring adults.  The opening of the story shows Puck clashing with the maid Bet, bristling at not being treated as a “young lady,” and being emboldened by her fashionable friends, Ellen and Grace. A treat of poffertjes turns sour when Puck abandons Frits and Lientien to sit with those friends, earning a stern talking‑to; soon after, an April Fools joke on Lientien ends in slaps before their father restores peace with a walk and pastries. The family then confronts a serious worry: the mother’s eyesight, with a professor’s advice leading to a new household arrangement in which Nel takes over many duties and Kee tends Aunt Sjarlotje, while Frits quietly dreams of becoming an eye doctor. Puck, having eavesdropped, panics and alarms Lientien before the truth is calmly set right, and a new helper, the industrious (and insatiably hungry) Geertje from Scheveningen, joins the busy home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76890,908,'Reading ease score: 79.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76890,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76890,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76891,520,'"The accomplishment ratio :  A treatment of the inherited determinants of…." by Raymond Franzen is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. It examines disparities in school achievement through standardized testing and statistical analysis, proposing the “Accomplishment Ratio” to judge how well students’ actual progress aligns with their intellectual potential. The study focuses on how classification, measurement, and targeted instruction can raise achievement to match measured intelligence, probing whether differences in school performance are inherited or shaped by schooling.  The opening of the work lays out the rationale for replacing opinion with standardized measurement in schools and defines a toolkit of indices: Intelligence Quotient (IQ), Subject Quotients (SQ), Subject Ratios (SR), and their average, the Accomplishment Ratio (AccR). It explains how age norms are derived via regressions of score on age (with corrections for truncation) and then details the Garden City experiment: 200 pupils were tested with Binet, Thorndike reading and vocabulary, Woody-McCall arithmetic, and Kelley-Trabue language; students were reclassified by subject ability using “relation sheets,” regrouped for instruction, and “pushed” until their SQs approached their IQs. The procedures include precise scoring-to-age conversions, ongoing regrading by subject, and using AccR as a fairer, intelligence-referenced school mark for teachers and parents. Early statistical results show that, under special treatment, subject quotients move toward IQ and correlations strengthen across grades, suggesting intelligence is the primary driver of achievement while remaining disparities likely reflect schooling mismatches rather than distinct inherited special abilities. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76891,908,'Reading ease score: 53.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76891,704);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76891,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76891,673);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76892,520,'"Lightning Express; or, The Rival Academies" by Oliver Optic is a juvenile adventure novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on a student-run railroad and an escalating rivalry between the Toppleton Institute and the Wimpleton Academy along Lake Ucayga. The story follows Wolf Penniman, a level-headed young engineer, alongside the imperious Tommy Toppleton and the reckless Waddie Wimpleton, as schoolboy politics, railroading, and military-style drills spark real-world tensions. Themes of leadership, pride, and moral duty frame the spirited contests between the two academies.  The opening of the novel unfolds at a noisy stockholders’ meeting of the student-managed Lake Shore Railroad, where Tommy Toppleton’s heavy-handed presidency faces a revolt. After a procedural tussle, the boys adjourn to Grass Springs for an election and a celebratory supper; Tommy is humiliatingly voted out on the first ballot, restored on a second only because his rival, Skotchley, refuses the office. The students then choose the Horse Shoe island for their annual encampment—largely to needle their Wimpleton rivals—and prepare a rapid march. Wolf, urged by Major Toppleton to “keep the peace,” helps expedite transport, but at Grass Springs the Wimpleton flotilla blocks the channel. Tommy rashly orders a steamer to force passage; Wolf and the captain try to avoid harm, yet Waddie leads a bold boarding that seizes the forward deck, locks Company B below, and stops the engine. With the steamer captured and tempers high, Waddie tries to coerce Wolf into running the machinery, setting the stage for a dangerous standoff. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76892,908,'Reading ease score: 73.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76892,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76892,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76892,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76892,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76893,520,'"Artistic embroidery : containing practical instructions in the ornamental…." by Ella Rodman Church is a practical needlework manual written in the late 19th century. It teaches artistic embroidery rather than mere fancy work, covering materials, stitches, design, and color, and offering projects for household decoration and dress. Expect clear guidance on crewel and silk work, gold-thread embellishment, appliqué, and tasteful, durable finishes.  The opening of this manual distinguishes artistic embroidery from pattern-filling “fancy work,” urging the worker to design, choose materials, and stitch as one, to favor simplified forms suited to the needle, and to prize durability. It then treats worsted embroidery—especially crewel—giving the crewel stitch, shading and leaf direction, suitable motifs and grounds, and many project ideas (friezes, dados, portières, screens, table covers, wraps). A concise color primer explains harmonious pairings, key-note schemes, and how ground and light affect tints. The section on silk embroidery introduces frames and hand positions, the principal long stitch, and allied stitches (satin, French knots, stalk, point-russe, herring-bone, chain, ladder), with patterns and notes on Chinese and Japanese styles. Next come designing and transferring methods (tracing, pouncing, chalk), followed by example pieces in silk—from peacock-feather and banner screens to dress panels, fans, furniture covers, and a child’s afghan. The opening also outlines print-work (engraving-like monochrome), mixing silk with gold (passing, cord, braid, bullion, spangles, gold thread, with heraldic cautions), embroidered bookbindings and small leather goods, and begins appliqué with its methods and patterns for borders and lambrequins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76893,908,'Reading ease score: 58.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76893,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76893,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76893,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76894,520,'"Llibre d''horas by Apeles Mestres" is a lyrical poetry collection written in the late 19th century. Shaped like a traditional book of hours, it traces a single day from dawn to night, blending vivid nature imagery with gentle philosophical reflections on time, presence, love, and a discreet sense of the divine.  The morning poems awaken with the lark and first light, urging us to seize the only sure moment—now—while counseling calm, constancy, and trust in a higher purpose. Midday celebrates sunlit fields alive with birds, blossoms, and buzzing life. Afternoon turns meditative: clouds transform and pass, losses are met with nature’s renewals, melancholy lengthens yet yields to hope, and twilight hushes the landscape as mountains sleep and two vigilant cats face off in a garden. Night widens the gaze to the cosmos—the moon’s silent path, the world stilled under silver light, the Angel of Sleep, the clock grinding moments into eternity, questions whispered to the stars—and closes with a luminous vision of God moving through sky, sea, and fields, affirming the quiet rhythms of life and a serene, steadfast faith. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76894,908,'Reading ease score: 74.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76894,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76895,520,'Harjoitushetki Himppulassa :  Yksinäytöksinen sankaripila by Kaarle Halme is a one-act stage comedy—a farcical sketch—written in the early 20th century. Set in a rural community hall, it lightly satirizes small-town militia drilling, poking fun at bluster, incompetence, and local pride during volunteer military exercises.  The action unfolds on a summer Sunday at the village hall stage. Herttuala, the janitor, readies the space while the pompous, big-bellied merchant Mallinen takes charge, soon joined by the sleepy Virsilä, the jovial baker Kekkeri, and the farmer Torppala. Ville Ikämies, the training officer, struggles to impose discipline as the men bungle simple formations, confuse left and right, and fidget over details like trouser seams. Ordered to the ground, Mallinen can’t get up without help, and the drill dissolves into banter and excuses. When coffee is mentioned, the “exhausted” trainees spring up at once, revealing their malingering; they cap their bluff with a boastful song about Himppula’s unbeatable “war tricks,” sealing the play’s gentle mockery of patriotic posturing and village vanity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76895,908,'Reading ease score: 58.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76895,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76895,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76896,520,'"Ikuinen salaisuus : Rakkaus- ja jännityskertomuksia" by Jack London is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The volume blends romance, adventure, and psychological suspense, at times brushing against the supernatural. Its opening tale follows Lute and Chris, lovers in Northern California, whose bond is strained by a secret Chris refuses to reveal and a growing sense that unseen forces threaten them. Expect passionate conflicts, vivid landscapes, and swift, unsettling turns.  The opening of the collection presents Lute demanding that Chris explain why he cannot marry her, even as he professes deep love and insists he must remain silent. Lute recounts how her guardians, Milred and Robert, shifted from warm approval to concern over years of delay, while she devoted herself entirely to Chris. During two rides, inexplicable accidents strike: Lute’s gentle mare suddenly turns murderous under Chris, and the next day his own horse topples backward off a steep bank, breaking its back as he narrowly survives. Back at camp, a psychograph séance with Milred, Robert, Mrs. Grantly, and Mr. Barton produces a chilling message warning Chris that two attempts on his life have already been made; when asked the sender’s identity, the device writes the name “Dick Curtis,” recognized as Lute’s deceased father, leaving the group shaken and the mystery deepening. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76896,908,'Reading ease score: 42.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76896,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76896,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76896,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76896,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76896,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76897,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is a popular educational periodical written in the early 19th century. It is a miscellany that aims to diffuse useful knowledge to general readers through short essays, reports, and poems on natural history, science, history, culture, and practical instruction.  This issue ranges widely: it opens with a vivid natural history sketch of the Cape buffalo and a perilous hunting anecdote; defends public reasoning in judicial decisions; records a traveller’s account of Egypt’s hot Camsin wind, suspected to show electrical effects; and offers brief histories of forks and the tarantella. A substantial feature traces Westminster Abbey’s origins, setting, architecture, and memorials, while shorter pieces give maxims on property, industry, and perseverance (via Robert Bruce’s spider). “The Week” profiles the anatomist John Hunter; “Labourers of Europe” surveys Italian peasants, metayer farming, and coastal livelihoods; and Benjamin Franklin explains how to learn to swim. Interludes of verse (“The Weaver’s Song,” “The Stormy Petrel”) add lyric color, and closing notes examine past excise abuses and an Arab schedule of fines—altogether presenting an accessible, improving compendium of facts, reflections, and practical advice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76897,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76897,908,'Reading ease score: 53.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76897,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76898,520,'The war in Nicaragua by William Walker is a historical memoir written in the mid-19th century. It presents Walker’s firsthand account of his filibuster expedition amid Nicaragua’s civil strife between Democrats and Legitimists, mixing battlefield narrative, political argument, and self-justification. Readers can expect campaign planning and combat episodes, factional rivalries, and Walker’s claim that his small American force sought to impose order in a region he portrays as unstable.  The opening of the narrative frames the work with a dedication to fallen comrades and a preface on the challenges of writing contemporary history, then swiftly sketches the 1854 Nicaraguan revolution, the rival constitutions, Democrats versus Legitimists, the siege of Granada, Chamorro’s death, and regional pressures from Guatemala and Honduras. Walker recounts his earlier Lower California venture to explain motives, then details Byron Cole’s colonization grant, the legal care taken to avoid U.S. neutrality violations, and the fraught charter, seizure, and midnight departure of the brig Vesta carrying 58 men. After arriving at Realejo, he meets Director Castellon and the haughty General Muñoz, forms the American Phalanx, and proposes seizing Rivas; the ensuing operation lands at El Gigante, pushes inland through storms, skirmishes at Tola, and attacks Rivas, where native commander Ramirez falters and the Americans fight house to house before retreating with heavy losses, including officers Crocker and Kewen. At San Juan del Sur they commandeer the schooner San José, a fire set by two rogues forces a harsh example—Dewey is shot at sea—then the force rejoins the Vesta and returns to Realejo, where Walker challenges Muñoz’s conduct while Castellon pleads for the Americans to remain; the excerpt closes as Castellon arrives to persuade Walker to continue the campaign. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76898,908,'Reading ease score: 48.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76898,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76898,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76898,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76898,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76899,520,'"The man who saved New York by Ray Cummings" is a science fiction short story written in the mid-20th century. Blending wartime adventure with speculative fantasy, it follows a man whose roaming ego can possess other beings, culminating in an extraordinary intervention that thwarts a Nazi attack on New York.  The narrator’s friend Porky discovers he can slip his consciousness into strangers and control them, a power he nervously demonstrates by making an old woman direct traffic. Seeing a chance to help the war effort, the group schemes to have Porky possess a U-boat commander and sabotage enemy submarines. On a moonlit beach, as an air raid approaches, Porky instead slips into a colossal green sea giant that rises offshore and destroys several Nazi bombers, saving the city. Afterward, Porky and Lisbeth fall in love, and his strange ability vanishes, ending any hope of using it to end the war, even though it has already averted disaster for New York. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76899,908,'Reading ease score: 83.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76899,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76899,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76899,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76900,520,'"Race and nationality by Franz Boas" is a scholarly essay in anthropology and social thought written in the early 20th century. The work challenges popular beliefs about race and nationalism, arguing that supposed racial instincts and pure racial types are myths, that nationality rests on shared culture more than blood or language, and that humanity should move toward a federation of nations.  The essay rejects the idea that Europe’s conflict is a war of races, showing that physical types and ancestries are widely mixed and do not match national borders or languages. It dismantles the blond Aryan myth, finds no evidence for the inferiority of mixed populations, and explains that what we call race often masks national habit and sentiment. Nationality, it argues, grows from common habits, feelings, and political life; language can aid it but is not essential, as shown by places like Belgium and Switzerland, and even polyglot empires can develop shared civic ideals. While acknowledging nationalism’s creative role in enlarging the individual’s field of action, the essay warns against its aggressive, expansionist misuse in pan-movements. Tracing social evolution from small hordes to nations, it proposes the next step: a federation of nations with common aims, surpassing mere arbitration. It concludes that education should temper patriotic fervor with international ethics, and that war is defensible only to protect the integrity of essential ideals, not to impose one nation’s will on others. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76900,908,'Reading ease score: 33.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76900,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76900,693);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76900,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76900,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76901,520,'"Birth Control Laws: Shall We Keep Them, Change Them, or Abolish Them" by Mary Ware Dennett is a public-policy treatise written in the early 20th century. It scrutinizes how U.S. federal and state statutes born of “Comstockery” restrict access to contraceptive information, and weighs whether these laws should be retained, modified, or repealed. The work maps the legal framework, recounts its origins, and considers practical and ethical consequences for families, physicians, and public institutions.  The opening of the treatise sets its scope: it will not argue the merits of birth control itself, but will examine the laws that govern access to contraceptive knowledge and how those laws should change. Dennett outlines the book’s structure and then, through vivid examples—a mother’s letter to her daughter, a doctor-to-doctor exchange, and a lawmaker’s private plea—shows how federal statutes make even basic advice a crime. She summarizes key federal provisions and parallel state measures, highlighting their conflation of contraception with obscenity and abortion, peculiar extremes like Connecticut’s ban on use, and New York’s narrow medical carveout that enabled a clinic. The author defines birth control as prevention of conception (not abortion), exposes the absurdity of criminalizing knowledge but not its use, and illustrates distribution barriers that persist even in states without explicit bans, as seen in the Chicago clinic fight. Turning to origins, she describes the bill’s rushed passage in Congress under Anthony Comstock’s influence, the removal of an early physician exemption, and the unique American practice of classing contraceptive science with indecency, alongside Comstock’s methods, mindset, and critics. She notes that enforcement has been sporadic and often selective—citing politicized cases and light penalties—underscoring official inconsistency and the practical unenforceability of the laws. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76901,908,'Reading ease score: 48.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76901,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76901,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76901,690);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76901,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76902,520,'"The history of the Bastile, and of its principal captives" by R. A. Davenport is a historical account written in the early 19th century. It examines the notorious Paris state prison, detailing its origins, structure, administration, the machinery of lettres de cachet, the daily realities of confinement, and the stories of prominent prisoners across successive French reigns, with a clear moral stance against arbitrary power.  The opening of the work sets its scope and purpose: the author admits space constraints, promises accuracy and fairness, and aims to unite information with engagement. It then outlines the book’s breadth via a detailed contents list and a plan of the fortress, before Chapter I gives a close, almost architectural tour of the Bastile—its courts, towers, dungeons, rooms, meagre furnishings, food allowances and abuses, the tiny library, and chapel niches—alongside an explanation of lettres de cachet, their uses and abuses, and the secrecy that shrouded arrests, correspondence, illness, death, and burial. Vivid particulars include corrupt provisioning, the suppression of letters, bans on tools and even compasses, night-time isolation, medical delays, refusal to permit wills, and the masking of identities after death; a first-person narrative of an eight-month inmate illustrates the routine of arrest, processing, confinement, limited exercise, controlled reading, and ultimate release with none of his letters delivered. Chapter II begins the chronological history: the term “Bastile,” early Paris bastiles, the founding efforts of Stephen Marcel and later enlargements by Hugh Aubriot (whose downfall to university and clerical hostility and brief liberation during a popular rising are recounted), then political imprisonments under Charles VI, including Noviant and La Rivière, the fall of Montaigu, and the factional struggle between Burgundians and Armagnacs centered in Paris. It closes amid the rise and peril of Provost Peter des Essarts—his seizure of the Bastile and the Burgundian-orchestrated popular siege—where the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76902,908,'Reading ease score: 55.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76902,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76902,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76902,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76902,660);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76903,520,'"The Copper House" by Julius Regis is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. Set in neutral Stockholm during the First World War, it pits journalist-sleuth Maurice Wallion and the returning heir Leonard Grath against a clandestine power webbed around the seaside estate known as the Copper House. A coveted political dossier—the Tarraschin memorandum—draws spies, financiers, and hired guns into conflict, with the enigmatic magnate Gabriel Ortiz lurking behind the scenes. Expect tense espionage, sharp psychological duels, and the guarded allure of Sonia Bernin, whose family’s tenancy masks dangerous loyalties.  The opening of the story frames Stockholm as a whirlpool of covert forces before cutting to a hotel where Baron Fayerling’s attempt to seize the memorandum from courier Bernard Jenin is coolly foiled by Wallion. In parallel, Leonard Grath learns from his lawyer that mounting debts will force the sale of his ancestral estate to Andrei Bernin, fronted by the pushy Marcus Tassler; he receives a warning letter from Wallion, has his pocketbook stolen and mysteriously returned, and impulsively heads to the Copper House. Wallion recruits a frightened spy, B.22, who hints at a vast scheme led by Ortiz—once a flamboyant “Emperor of the Amazons,” now a war-profiteering mastermind—before bolting in panic. At the estate, Leo is refused entry at gunpoint, slips in through the woods, rescues Sonia Bernin from rough “guards,” and is briskly received by her formidable aunt, Lona Ivanovna. A frantic chase erupts when a pale stranger (likely Jenin) arrives, is pursued by the brutal Rastakov, and vanishes inside; Lona fires a shot, Rastakov ransacks the house, and threatens worse in the name of his unseen “Chief.” The sequence ends with the house fallen eerily silent and Leo, now entangled and shut out of the truth, retreating in shock to his old room. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76903,908,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76903,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76903,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76903,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76904,520,'"Frederick Chopin: A Man of Solitude" by comte Guy de Pourtalès is a biographical study written in the early 20th century. It offers an intimate, poetic portrait of Chopin as a Polish exile and Romantic artist, exploring how national identity, frailty, and inwardness shaped his music and life. Expect a focus on his early formation, Parisian ascent, key relationships, and the aesthetic of refined melancholy that defines his art.  The opening of this biography sets Chopin against the luminous foil of Liszt and the fate of Poland, then follows him from a protected Warsaw childhood through precocious studies with Zywny and Elsner, first publications, and early acclaim. It traces his awakening sensibility—captured in the untranslatable Polish zal—his youthful love for the singer Constance Gladkowska, and his conflicted departure from Warsaw on the eve of revolution. In Vienna he endures isolation and anguish for his embattled homeland, composes the concertos and early Nocturnes and Etudes, and, after the fall of Warsaw, channels grief into the “Revolutionary” Etude. Arriving in Paris, he resists Kalkbrenner’s tutelage, earns critical admiration but scant income, then gains patrons, students, and a salon reputation for exquisite improvisations, while publishing mazurkas, nocturnes, and waltzes and befriending Liszt, Berlioz, Hiller, and Franchomme. The section closes with his first notable Paris loves and friendships (including Delphine Potoçka), a joyful reunion with his parents, and a tender Dresden interlude with Marie Wodzinska—immortalized in the “Waltz of the Farewell”—before brief encounters with Mendelssohn, Clara Wieck, and Schumann on his way back. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76904,908,'Reading ease score: 68.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76904,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76904,677);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76905,520,'"Sweden" by Dudley Heathcote is a travelogue and cultural guide written in the early 20th century. It surveys the country through vivid journeys, blending practical travel advice with history, architecture, folklore, and observations on national customs. The focus ranges from outdoor sports and climate to regional identities and cityscapes, moving from the coasts and lakes to Stockholm and beyond. The tone is appreciative and informative, with itinerary-style routes and a keen eye for everyday details.  The opening of the book presents Sweden as an ideal country for outdoor life, linking modern sport to Norse traditions and Ling gymnastics, and explaining the distinctive climate, geology, and luminous scenery across regions from Skåne and Bohuslän to Dalecarlia, Norrland, and Lapland. It sketches the character and variety of the people and praises the nation’s efficiency, civic order, and hospitality. The narrative then follows a sea approach to Gothenburg—complete with the smörgåsbord ritual—before surveying the port’s history, parks, public services, architecture, and local etiquette. From there it turns to the Bohuslän coast, mixing rugged seascapes with Beowulf lore, prehistoric remains, and practical excursions to Marstrand, Lysekil, and Uddevalla. A leisurely passage along the Göta Canal carries the reader across lakes and locks past castles, abbeys, and towns—Bohus, Trollhättan, Vänern, Kinnekulle, Vättern, Jönköping, Vadstena, and Söderköping—through the Baltic skerries into Lake Mälaren. It culminates in an initial portrait of the capital’s setting and past, highlighting the Royal Palace, Old Town churches, the House of Knights, atmospheric streets, and the new Town Hall. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76905,908,'Reading ease score: 32.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76905,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76906,520,'Nicaragua :  its people, scenery, monuments, resources, condition, and proposed… by E. G. Squier is a historical travel account written in the mid-19th century. It surveys Nicaragua’s landscapes, people, antiquities, resources, and politics while arguing for the feasibility and importance of an interoceanic canal, mixing on-the-ground observation with history and diplomacy.  The opening of the work follows the author’s cramped voyage on the brig Francis to San Juan de Nicaragua (Greytown), a tense bar crossing that nearly wrecks the ship, and his first close look at a palm-thatched port under British consular control. He sketches vivid street scenes—mixed races, cigar‑smoking women in naguas and guipils, hammocks in doorways, lagoons alive with alligators and snakes, and a comical equality among pigs, babies, dogs, and chickens—alongside visits with a courteous local host and the ailing British consul. A farcical clash erupts when two wan “policemen” try to enforce a new rule to pen free‑roaming livestock, winning the Americans local favor and a serenade; a side trip across the harbor shows squalid Mosquito Indian camps and turtle fishers. The narrative then turns descriptive: the port’s location and healthfulness, flimsy but adequate housing, pests like scorpions and chigoes, the pattern of trade and duties, and a sharp critique of Britain’s seizure of the port under the Mosquito pretext, all set against the looming canal project. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76906,908,'Reading ease score: 49.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76906,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76906,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76906,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76907,520,'"La Légende des siècles tome IV" by Victor Hugo is a collection of poems written in the late 19th century. This volume offers an epic, panoramic meditation on humanity—its wars and ideals, its faith in science and justice, and its struggle between darkness and progress. Readers encounter mythic invocations, historical portraits, and moral allegories that link ancient heroism to modern conscience.  The opening of the collection contrasts the old war‑glorifying muse with a new muse of peace, then defends scientific courage through the story of Halley, mocked for foretelling a comet that duly returns. It extols the poet as a world unto himself and unfolds a sustained elegy on Napoleon—his defeat, exile, and ceremonial “return”—set amid reflections on France’s destiny. A vision of Truth shows seers persecuted before truth reappears, leading into historical and humane vignettes: Jean Chouan’s self‑sacrifice, a commander giving mercy to a treacherous enemy, a nun tearing her guimpe to save a wounded youth, and a stark narrative of holding the cemetery at Eylau. Brief closing pieces choose Duty over Shame, appeal for divine justice from exile, and end with the bronze itself condemning statues that honor the unworthy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76907,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_L%C3%A9gende_des_si%C3%A8cles https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_L%C3%A9gende_des_si%C3%A8cles',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76907,908,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76907,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76907,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76907,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76908,520,'"Sul libro degli ultimi casi di Romagna e sulle speranze d''Italia fondate su…." is a polemical political pamphlet written in the mid-19th century. Framed as an open letter to Massimo d’Azeglio, it rebuts moderate counsels with a fiery defense of Italian uprisings, denounces contemporary rulers as tyrants, and argues that independence has been amply earned through long suffering and sacrifice. The work attacks the papal regime, the Bourbon monarchy in Naples, and above all Carlo Alberto and aristocratic “moderates,” contending that cautious protest is futile under censorship and police repression. Its likely focus is to justify insurrection in Romagna as a national, not provincial, effort and to rally Italians toward unity, leadership, and decisive action.  The opening of "Sul libro degli ultimi casi di Romagna e sulle speranze d''Italia fondate su…." addresses d’Azeglio directly, explaining the writer’s reluctant but compelled reply to his book on Romagna and his “hopes” in Carlo Alberto. Osservazione I rejects the claim that the age of tyrants is over, naming the Pope, the Duke of Modena, the King of Naples, and Carlo Alberto as present-day despots who imprison without trial; it defends Alfieri’s vehement language. Osservazione II disputes the idea that speaking freely is safe, citing censorship, surveillance, and even the constrained circulation of d’Azeglio’s own volume, while skewering aristocratic moderates like Balbo and lamenting theatrical muzzling. Osservazione III asserts Italy has long merited freedom, cataloging centuries of invasions and current abuses; Osservazione IV defends revolt as morally noble regardless of outcome and faults d’Azeglio’s contradictions. Osservazione V denies Italian egoism and municipalism, casting partial uprisings as sparks for a national blaze and calling for a leader and discreet propaganda; Osservazione VI rejects equating rebels with princes, urging resistance over resigned suffering. Osservazione VII mocks the notion of asking the Papal State to be “more despotic” and castigates Carlo Alberto’s betrayals; Osservazione VIII argues that open protests are useless and dangerous, offering anecdotes and beginning to cite the great powers’ ignored reform memorandum to Rome. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76908,908,'Reading ease score: 14.3 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76908,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76908,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76908,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76908,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76909,520,'"Vanhojen neitien talo :  Kertomus pyhimyksistä ja sankareista" by Sven Lidman is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set around a decaying Stockholm townhouse nicknamed “Nelonen,” it portrays a small circle of aging gentlewomen whose lives and quarrels play out against a city’s march toward modernity and wealth. The story centers on the imperious Rosalie Pistolschiöld, the pinched and acquisitive Emma Wigelstjerna, the fragile and grieving Eurydike Berg, and the more hesitant Marie-Louise Almgren. Through sharp portraits and moral reflections, it contrasts aristocratic pride, petty bourgeois habits, and wounded romanticism with the hard edges of contemporary urban life.  The opening of the novel moves from brief meditations on truth and the schooling of the heart to a vivid, almost panoramic description of the old house on Malmberg Street and its disdainful, modern neighbors. We learn how a binding testament keeps the building untouched and shelters three elderly women in the top floor, marking it as a stubborn relic amid speculation and progress. The narrative then sketches the tenants: Rosalie (“Pistooli”) rises at dawn, inspects the courtyard and stables like a commander, and recalls a ceremonious upbringing under her punctilious court-official father; Emma’s backstory reveals a fussy, tightly managed childhood, a life devoted to furniture and propriety, and her calculated move into the house that sparks friction with Rosalie; finally, Eurydike appears in a dim, flower-crowded room, her hush contrasting the city’s glare, as her past unfolds—widowhood, children lost at sea, and roots in an old industrial-huguenot line—before the narrative breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76909,908,'Reading ease score: 18.1 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76909,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76910,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge is a popular educational periodical written in the early 19th century. This issue offers an accessible miscellany of illustrated knowledge and moral reflection, likely focused on history, architecture, literature, natural history, and social improvement.  The magazine ranges widely: it opens with a detailed account of Rome’s Colosseum, its scale, engineering, and bloody spectacles, framed by Montaigne’s vivid observations and a moral critique of cruelty. It then analyzes the circulation of the Spectator and the impact of stamp duties; explains how to gauge a horse’s age by its teeth; and traces tobacco’s spread into Europe alongside clerical and royal attempts to suppress it. “The Week” blends folklore (St. Swithin) with a compact life of Petrarch and Byron’s tribute. An essay by Dr. Percival argues that a taste for nature refines the morals and elevates piety. A report on the District Society of Brighton describes a hands-on model of charitable visiting that promotes thrift through small savings, even proposing a simple home savings box. The literary close celebrates Milton’s Lycidas—its pastoral lament, vision of true fame, and Christian consolation—followed by brief reflections on preserving the memory of great men and on truthfulness in conversation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76910,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76910,908,'Reading ease score: 48.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76910,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76911,520,'"Good-bye to all that :  An autobiography" by Robert Graves is an autobiography written in the early 20th century. It charts Graves’s life from a precocious, book-filled childhood through elite English schooling and toward the disillusionments that frame his farewell to the society, institutions, and loyalties that shaped him, with war and literary life looming as central arenas of experience.  The opening of this autobiography sets out Graves’s blunt aims—farewell, forgetfulness, and money—before moving swiftly into vivid, unsentimental self-portraiture and family origins. He sketches early memories and a wry “passport” description of his body and temperament, then unfolds a double inheritance: a principled, learned German maternal line (von Ranke) and a wordy, clerical Anglo-Irish paternal line (Graves), each supplying traits and tensions he will struggle with. He recalls strict Protestant upbringing, class awareness sharpened in a fever hospital, and a household of servants bridged by a beloved nurse, alongside a developing horror of Catholic imagery and a long, crippling fear of sin and sex. Schooling dominates: a carousel of preparatory schools—from canings and scandal to first literary discipline—culminates in a scholarship to Charterhouse, where poverty, “von” in his name, and prudish innocence invite bullying amid a culture of games, romanticized homosociality, and cynicism. Counterbalancing this are luminous summers in Bavaria (castles, ghosts, rich food) and a deep attachment to the austere Welsh hills, where he trains himself out of fear. The section ends with his loathing for the public-school spirit, a postponed Oxford, and the turn to poetry as a private refuge. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76911,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good-Bye_to_All_That',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76911,908,'Reading ease score: 68.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76911,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76911,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76911,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76912,520,'"Koning Richard de Derde" by William Shakespeare is a historical play written in the late 16th century. It follows Richard, Duke of Gloucester, as he schemes, flatters, and murders his way toward the English crown amid the Wars of the Roses. The drama gathers queens, princes, and powerful lords into his plots, setting ambition, conscience, and prophecy against each other.  The opening of the play shows Richard declaring his intent to become a villain and turning the king against his brother Clarence through a prophecy about the letter G. He then confronts Lady Anne at the funeral of King Henry VI and, astonishingly, wins her promise despite having caused the deaths of her husband and father-in-law. At court, Queen Elizabeth’s faction clashes with Richard, while the exiled Queen Margaret appears to curse them all; Richard mocks penitence and secretly hires killers. Clarence endures a terrifying dream and is murdered in the Tower. Next, the ailing King Edward briefly reconciles his nobles, only to learn Clarence is dead, which he bitterly laments. After Edward’s death, the queen and the Duchess of York grieve, and Buckingham urges that the young prince be brought to London with a small escort, while he and Richard privately plan to separate the boy from the queen’s kin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76912,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_III_(play)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76912,908,'Reading ease score: 75.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76912,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76912,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76912,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76913,520,'"Van pool tot pool : Tweede reis : van de Noordpool naar den Aequator" by Hedin is a travel narrative and popular history of exploration written in the early 20th century. It follows a sweeping north-to-south journey that begins in Scandinavia and the Arctic, blending first-hand travel impressions with accessible retellings of historic polar expeditions, natural history, and cultural observation. The likely focus is on landscapes, peoples, and scientific exploration from the North Pole region toward the Equator, presented as an educational adventure for general readers.  The opening of the work carries the reader from Stockholm by rail through Sweden’s forests and ore country to the Arctic Circle and Kiruna, then across the mountains to Narvik and by steamer along fjords to Tromsø, Hammerfest, and the storm-lashed North Cape, with vivid scenes of midnight sun, Sami life, and iron-ore ports. It then pivots to a compact, dramatic history of polar exploration, centering on Franklin’s doomed voyage of the Erebus and Terror: the icebound winters, Franklin’s death, the desperate sledge retreat, the “Dead Men’s Bay,” and later Inuit testimonies that illuminate the expedition’s end. Further chapters recount the German expedition to East Greenland (the ship Germania), its organized overwintering, scientific routines, arduous sledge journeys, and the stark realities of the polar night. The section closes by turning to the dangers of wildlife in that environment, beginning with an encounter with a polar bear. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76913,908,'Reading ease score: 65.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76913,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76913,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76914,520,'"The mystery of the missing eyebrows" by Stephen Rudd is a juvenile detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows Renfro Horn, an alert newspaper carrier whose curiosity about eerie lights at a dilapidated country house, a grim old hunter, and a prowler at a judge’s window soon tangles with the kidnaping of Judge Wier’s daughter. A strange, telling clue—frozen fragments of a man’s eyebrows stuck to a windowpane—propels Renfro’s amateur investigation. Aimed at young readers, it blends small‑town intrigue, Boy Scout camaraderie, and the hustle of route work into a brisk, clue‑driven adventure.  The opening of the novel introduces Renfro’s world: he spots illegal game on Captain Pete Hall, notices mysterious lights in the old Hall mansion, and hears a rumor-laced past about Pete’s outlaw brother. To justify frequent trips past the house, Renfro buys a notoriously bad paper route and is christened “Hooch” by the route manager, meeting an odd Scotsman with an airedale named Lang Tammy and witnessing a squat stranger peeping into Judge Wier’s window. When Helen Wier is abducted without a sound, the police brush off Renfro’s report, but he secures a concrete clue—two frozen eyebrow patches peeled from the frosted pane—and secretly stashes them with the help of Mary, the loyal housemaid. Seeking more leads, he visits the Hall place at night, notes evasive answers from Captain Pete, and later joins Boy Scouts on an overnight at Twin Cedar Cabin near the Hall land, where large boot and dog tracks (and possibly smaller prints) suggest recent intruders and eerie lights flicker over reputed Indian graves. In the final moments of this opening, a mishap destroys the footprint evidence, leaving Renfro with only his eyebrow clue and growing suspicions to pursue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76914,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76914,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76914,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76914,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76915,520,'"Motion pictures, January-June 1976 : Catalog of copyright entries, third…." by the Library of Congress Copyright Office is a government bibliographic catalog written in the late 20th century. It documents and indexes U.S. copyright registrations for motion pictures—both photoplays and other films—filed in the first half of the year, along with renewal records, filing conventions, and standardized data fields to identify each work.  The opening of this volume outlines its legal authority and purpose, ordering and subscription information, and a survey of all parts in the Third Series with their classes and prices. It defines the scope for Parts 12–13, explains alphabetic filing rules, and details the data elements that appear in each main entry (title, authorship, editions, notes, claimant, dates, registration numbers, and related statements), including how discrepancies and renewals are handled. It then provides registration totals for the period, a comprehensive key to abbreviations and symbols, and begins the alphabetical index of names and titles, launching with entries ranging from classic films to television news programs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76915,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright_Catalog',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76915,908,'Reading ease score: 63.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76915,697);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76916,520,'"Em''s husband :  A sequel to "Em" by Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte Southworth is a novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Em (Emolyn) Palmer and her close-knit family as they become caretakers of the isolated Wilderness Manor, where country splendor, murmurs of hauntings, and a revered blind preacher shape their days. Em’s encounters with a veiled “White Spirit” portrait and the honorable naval officer Ronald Bruce braid mystery with budding romance. Expect domestic warmth, moral shading, and touches of the supernatural set along river, forest, and mountain.  The opening of the story traces Em’s first trip with old ’Sias to a river island, where a blind preacher delivers a stirring sermon on Faith, Love, and Works, and where a dazzling white mansion holds a portrait eerily like Em. Returning to the Wilderness, the family camps in the grand hall, meets the brisk estate agent Carmichael, and moves into the rough “Red Wing,” even as Em endures two nocturnal apparitions—one radiant, one menacing. As they air out the manor, Em finds another ancestral portrait—again her likeness—and the Palmers settle into a simpler, happy routine. Em learns to sail and row, revisits the island alone, and unexpectedly meets Ronald Bruce; their frank, tender talk hints at mutual feeling. He escorts her home, is warmly received, and stays the night, while his dilemma—sea career versus staying with his retired uncle at The Breezes—emerges, leaving Em thoughtful and silent. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76916,908,'Reading ease score: 78.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76916,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76916,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76916,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76917,520,'"Ida Nicolari" by Eglanton Thorne is a novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on a classically beautiful young woman raised outside Christianity by her celebrated sculptor father, whose failing eyesight threatens his life’s work. As her mother’s friend reenters their lives—with ties to a principled young clergyman—Ida is drawn into questions of art, duty, belief, and love amid a circle that includes a spoiled pupil and a fashionable devotee of church ritual. The tone suggests a moral and spiritually searching story shaped by suffering, friendship, and the testing of character.  The opening of the novel introduces Antonio Nicolari in his Chelsea studio, lovingly shaping a Psyche while his daughter Ida poses, and hints at his worsening vision. A visit from Mrs. Tregoning—dear friend of Ida’s late mother—reveals Antonio’s bitter break with his wife’s Christian family, the poverty and grief that hastened her death, and the contrasting future of Mrs. Tregoning’s son Theodore, now preparing for the Church. Ida meets the refined but patronizing Geraldine Seabrook, is challenged for admitting she is not a Christian, and then learns—from Mrs. Tregoning—that her own mother was a devoted believer, which unsettles her. Returning home, Ida hears the grim verdict on her father’s eyes (an operation may be needed), and, moved by what she has learned, asks to read her mother’s books so she can explore the faith for herself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76917,908,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76917,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76917,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76918,520,'Lady Betty''s Governess; or, The Corbet Chronicles by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a historical novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the 1630s, it follows Margaret Merton, a rector’s daughter who becomes governess and companion to the delicate, hunchbacked Lady Betty Stanton, and frames domestic life, faith, and class with the looming tensions that lead toward England’s civil conflicts. The story blends tender caregiving and moral testing with encounters among clergy, gentry, and servants in a great Devonshire house.  The opening of the novel presents a framed chronicle: an older Margaret Corbet addresses her daughters, recalling turbulent changes from Archbishop Laud to the king’s death and the Restoration. Then the narrative shifts to March 1637, where young Margaret Merton’s family, newly impoverished by her father’s death, prepares to leave their rectory; her brother Richard surrenders, for now, his hope of holy orders. A chance meeting with Bishop Joseph Hall brings gentle counsel, a reading list for Richard, and a solemn promise from Margaret to keep daily Scripture. After Felicia (the sharp-tongued aunt) departs with a wealthy relative and the bishop purchases the late rector’s library to aid the family, Margaret travels to Stanton Court. There she wins the confidence of frail, tempestuous Lady Betty by calming her morning fury and dressing her gently, clashes with austere Lady Jemima, and receives quiet support from Lady Stanton. As lessons and simple devotions begin, Margaret explores the village rectory, meets the ceremonious new chaplain, and hears of cousin Walter Corbet’s arrival—early signs of the social and spiritual crosscurrents that will shape her service. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76918,908,'Reading ease score: 80.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76918,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76918,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76919,520,'"The magic casket" by R. Austin Freeman is a collection of detective stories written in the early 20th century. The tales follow the brilliant forensic sleuth Dr. John Thorndyke—narrated by his colleague Dr. Jervis—as he unravels intricate crimes through scientific observation, legal acumen, and cool logic in and around London. Expect methodical investigations, subtle clues, and puzzles that hinge on precise technical details rather than melodrama.  The opening of the book presents two complete Thorndyke cases and the start of a third. In The Magic Casket, Thorndyke traces a years-old pearl theft and a menacing Japanese-made trinket to a hidden message revealed by the “magic mirror” effect in shakudo bronze, leading to the recovery of the pearls concealed inside a public pump. In The Contents of a Mare’s Nest, he exposes a forged cremation and a fictitious death: forged certificates, a sealed coffin no undertaker was allowed to view, and ashes made from butchered mutton rather than human bone, culminating in the embezzler’s capture. The Stalking Horse begins with a railway-carriage murder of a prominent anti-suffrage figure, a scented handkerchief, and a militant circular left as apparent clues, setting up a politically charged mystery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76919,908,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76919,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76919,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76919,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76920,908,'Reading ease score: 2.6 (Professional level). Extremely difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76920,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76920,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76920,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76921,520,'"What to drink : The blue book of beverages; recipes and directions for making…." by Bertha E. L. Stockbridge is a household guide and recipe book written in the early 20th century. It focuses on non‑alcoholic beverages for entertaining, offering practical advice on equipment, presentation, and make‑ahead syrups, vinegars, and shrubs. The emphasis is on attractive service, careful measuring, and quick, refreshing drinks suited to home hospitality.  The opening of this manual sets a bright, Prohibition‑era tone with a playful quatrain, then turns to a foreword “to the hostess of to‑day,” urging readers to keep syrups, shrubs, and fruit vinegars on hand, select clear thin glassware and simple linens, chill or warm glasses appropriately, and pay special attention when serving invalids. A “Measures” section insists on exact measurement and introduces basic tools like cups, spoons, scales, shaker, and ice shaver. The first chapters then launch into method and recipes: fruitades and lemonades (with tips like peeling lemons, using shaved ice, shakers, and carbonated water), ways to use canned fruit juices, hot lemonades, and an array of frappés (including quick and economical versions from purchased syrups). Next come fruit punches, cups, and bowls built from teas, citrus, berries, pineapple, mint, cider, grape juice, Apollinaris, and ginger ale, followed by non‑alcoholic “cocktails” (fruit and vegetable), and the home-bar canon reimagined—highballs, fizzes, sours, rickeys, cobblers, flips, and juleps—always stressing chilled service, moderate sweetness, and appealing presentation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76921,908,'Reading ease score: 68.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76921,678);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76921,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76922,520,'Weeds used in medicine by Alice Henkel is a practical scientific publication (a USDA Farmers’ Bulletin) written in the early 20th century. It outlines how common weeds can be identified, harvested, and prepared for medicinal use, emphasizing proper collection, curing, and basic marketing.  The bulletin opens with clear instructions on timing harvests, cleaning and shade-drying roots, leaves, flowers, and seeds, and packing samples for sale. It then profiles a wide range of weeds—from burdock, dandelion, docks, couch grass, and pokeweed to foxglove, mullein, lobelia, tansy, grindelia, boneset, catnip, hoarhound, blessed thistle, yarrow, Canada fleabane, jimson weed, poison hemlock, wormseed, and black and white mustards. Each entry notes common names, habitat and range, plant description, the parts used, when and how to collect and cure them, principal medicinal uses, and typical market prices, with warnings for poisonous species (e.g., foxglove, jimson weed, poison hemlock, lobelia, pokeweed). Throughout, the book encourages farmers to turn weed eradication into modest profit by supplying clean, well-dried crude drugs that meet dealers’ standards. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76922,908,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76922,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76922,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76922,682);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76922,681);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76923,520,'"Musta helmi" by Victorien Sardou is a novel written in the mid-19th century. Set in Amsterdam, it blends romance and crime as Balthazar Van der Lys, eager to prove his long-standing love to the heiress Suzanne Van Miellis with a cherished medallion, is plunged into crisis when his home is burgled and suspicion falls on Christiane, the gentle foster daughter he and his late mother raised.  The opening of this novel follows Balthazar and his scholarly friend Cornelius Pamp through a violent storm back to Balthazar’s house, where a convivial evening turns to alarm: the study has been ransacked, cash and jewels are gone, and—most crucially—the medallion Balthazar meant to give Suzanne is missing. A keen but self-satisfied police commissary, Tricamp, reconstructs the break-in via a hidden wall opening and swiftly theorizes the thief is a small, agile young woman familiar with the house. Suspicion narrows to Christiane, who returns from tending the elderly servant Gudule, is confronted, faints, and is further compromised when a black pearl from the medallion is found in her room. While Gudule’s testimony places Christiane mostly in the house and shows how rattled she was by the storm, the scene ends with Christiane protesting her innocence as Balthazar and Cornelius—torn between trust and mounting “evidence”—struggle to believe her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76923,908,'Reading ease score: 44.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76923,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76923,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76923,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76923,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76924,520,'"Tehtaantyttö : 3-näytöksinen näytelmä" by Jalmari Järviö is a three-act play written in the early 20th century. It centers on Siiri, a keen-minded torppari’s daughter steered toward factory work, whose life becomes entangled with class hierarchy, a concealed parentage, and a tender bond with Torsten, the estate owner’s son. The drama weighs poverty against aspiration, explores working-class education and morality, and pits youthful ideals against parental authority and social convention.  The opening of the play shows Siiri’s sickly mother Henna and stern stepfather Antti debating whether the teenage girl should go to the factory, while Henna dreads repeating her own hardships; a chance encounter in the farm’s shed leaves Siiri holding Torsten’s ring, and Henna’s soliloquy hints that Siiri’s true father is a German engineer. The next act shifts to Vihantila, where Torsten clashes with his father Hagen over his support for the workers’ association and his love for Siiri; despite threats of disinheritance and a heart episode, Torsten vows to follow his heart and help launch an evening school. At the start of the third act, Siiri visits her uncle Levola, plans a better path for cousin Selma, then learns Henna has died, reconciling with Antti as he delivers Henna’s last packet; Torsten arrives in mourning for his own father, and the two young people meet again in shared grief. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76924,908,'Reading ease score: 53.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76924,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76924,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76925,520,'"Elementary lathe practice :  As adapted to the teaching of machine shop…" by T. J. Palmateer is a technical instruction manual written in the early 20th century. Aimed at beginners in technical schools, it teaches foundational engine‑lathe operations and shop practices, focusing on accurate turning, facing, tapering, threading, boring, drilling, reaming, and knurling through tightly designed practical exercises.  The book is organized around three progressive exercises. The first covers cutting stock, centering, mounting between centers with a dog, facing, rough and finish turning, tool setting and grinding, speed choices, tailstock adjustment, gauging, and filing to produce a close running fit of a shaft to a collar. The second adds layout to length, recessing, taper turning by offsetting the tailstock, and a comprehensive approach to thread cutting: 60-degree tool geometry and gauging, gearing the lathe for pitch, engaging the split nut, using stops, reversing, and finishing each flank (or using a compound rest), with checks against standard nuts. The third shifts to cast iron and workholding: truing a rough casting in a four‑jaw chuck, rough boring with a flat drill and boring bar, reaming with shell and rose reamers, cutting inside threads, scraping finishes, and setting and machining a 30‑degree seating. A mating piece is drilled, reamed, mounted on a mandrel for external finishing, threaded without relief, its taper fitted and blued, and its boss knurled. Throughout, the instructions emphasize accurate measurement, proper lubricants, controlled feeds and speeds, and safe, efficient setups to produce true, smooth-running parts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76925,908,'Reading ease score: 77.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76925,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76925,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76925,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76926,520,'"Florentine villas" by Janet Ross is a historical and architectural account written in the early 20th century. It surveys the great villas around Florence—especially those linked to the Medici—blending descriptions of buildings and gardens with vivid sketches of their owners, artworks, and customs. The work promises a cultured tour where politics, patronage, and rural leisure meet.  The opening of the book sets out Ross’s aim to fill a gap in English reading on Florentine villas, drawing on Giuseppe Zocchi’s rare 18th-century etchings and local archives, and briefly tracing how fortified noble strongholds evolved into refined Medici country houses and enduring “villegiatura.” It then treats Villa Palmieri: its shifting names and 17th‑century remodeling, the arch for the Misericordia confraternities, the life and censured poem of Matteo Palmieri, the Botticini altarpiece long misattributed to Botticelli, later owners (notably Lord Cowper), its Decameron associations, and the Mugnone mills. Poggio a Cajano follows as Lorenzo de’ Medici’s showcase with Giuliano da Sangallo’s vast hall and frescoes by Andrea del Sarto, Franciabigio, and Pontormo; lush riverside gardens; and a stage for Medici ceremony and scandal—from imperial visits to the fraught saga of Bianca Cappello and the suspicious deaths of Francesco and Bianca. Cafaggiuolo appears as Michelozzo’s fortress‑villa in the Mugello, evoked through letters on the boyhood of Lorenzo and Giuliano, Donatello’s brief, comic stint as a farmer, rustic verse and Poliziano’s plague‑time dispatches, the politics around Alessandro’s murder and Cosimo’s rise, Don Pietro’s killing of Eleonora, Bronzino’s portrait of Bianca at nearby Olmi, Ferdinando’s autumn court life, and a concise debate over the villa’s majolica kilns. The section on Careggi begins with Cosimo’s purchase and fortification, a glimpse of its grand rooms and views, and its role as home of the Platonic Academy; it sketches Cosimo’s serene end, Lorenzo’s many‑sided genius, Poliziano and Pico at his bedside, and introduces the contested accounts of Savonarola’s final visit. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76926,908,'Reading ease score: 50.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76926,674);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76926,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76926,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76926,664);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76926,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76927,520,'"Only a clod" by M. E. Braddon is a novel written in the mid-19th century. It opens as a tale of exile, class resentment, and sudden fortune, contrasting a vain young ensign, Harcourt Lowther, with his steadfast valet, Francis Tredethlyn. A startling inheritance propels Francis from a Tasmanian convict outpost back to Cornwall, where he undertakes a search for his vanished cousin Susan, disinherited by her miserly father. Expect a blend of social tension, mystery, and moral testing across penal colonies and a bleak Cornish estate.  The opening of the novel follows Harcourt Lowther’s idle misery at Port Arthur and his uneasy reliance on the good-humoured private, Francis. A newspaper notice brings news of Francis’s uncle’s death; a lawyer’s letter then reveals a vast legacy and the darker fact that Susan, the uncle’s daughter and Francis’s former sweetheart, has disappeared in disgrace. Harcourt, consumed by envy and self-pity even as he clings to hopes of his fashionable beloved, Maude Hillary, contrasts sharply with Francis’s resolve. Francis returns to Landresdale, revisits the grim Grange, and learns from the austere housekeeper Martha Dryscoll that Susan was to be forced into marriage with an old, wealthy neighbour—after which she vanished—leaving Francis determined to find her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76927,908,'Reading ease score: 63.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76927,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76927,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76927,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76928,520,'"Madame Pierre Curie by Octave Béliard" is a biographical essay written in the early 20th century. The book portrays Marie Curie’s life and character, emphasizing her scientific partnership with Pierre Curie, her ascent in higher education, and her significance as a pioneering woman in science.  The essay opens with the public’s tense curiosity as Marie Curie delivers her first lecture after Pierre’s death, and it highlights her calm strength and modest authority. It then sketches Pierre Curie’s early formation, his ideals, and the meeting with the young Polish student who became both his intellectual equal and his beloved partner. The narrative follows their shared life of rigorous research balanced by simple joys in nature and family, their joint work leading to the isolation and naming of polonium and radium, and the honors they received together. It also recounts how she continued their common work, taking up the Sorbonne chair, and concludes with a broader reflection on the evolution of women’s roles—from passive muse to active collaborator—holding her up as a model of the modern, educated, and devoted woman of science. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76928,908,'Reading ease score: 61.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76928,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76928,668);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76929,520,'"Maugis, ye sorcerer : from ye ancient French : a wonderful tale from ye…." by Lord Gilhooley is a chivalric adventure novel written in the late 19th century. Framed as a found manuscript unearthed in the old city of Mouzon, it retells the Charlemagne-cycle legend of Maugis and the four sons of Aymon—combining battles, betrayal, and courtly love with “sorcery” rationalized as learned occult science. The tale follows the towering warrior-mage Maugis, his loyal brothers, the magnanimous yet wrathful Charlemagne, the treacherous Ganelon, and Yolande, whose secret bond with Maugis threads through the conflict.  The opening of the novel sets a modern frame: a narrator in Mouzon meets a haunted hermit, Charles Voudran, who claims to have found and burned ancient manuscripts about Maugis, yet hands over his own synopsis under oath to publish it outside France; he argues Maugis’s wonders sprang from Eastern occult training, not demons. The narrative then shifts to Charlemagne’s court: after a war triumph, the emperor sends his son Lothaire to summon the defiant Duke d’Aigremont, who kills the prince, prompting war, a royal victory, and then an astonishing imperial pardon—later undercut by Ganelon’s treacherous slaying of d’Aigremont. At court, Maugis demands justice, is rebuked, and—goaded during a chess match—kills Prince Berthelot; he escapes through Yolande’s chamber, and with his brothers raises the rock-fast Château Montfort on the Meuse. Charlemagne besieges it; Maugis burns the royal camp, withstands months of pressure, foils a midnight betrayal, then evacuates under fire, fights a rearguard pursuit, and escapes across a flood before the emperor razes Montfort—the opening closing as the brothers confront their father’s forces demanding their surrender. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76929,908,'Reading ease score: 61.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76929,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76929,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76929,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76929,646);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76930,520,'"How and what to grow in a kitchen garden of one acre" by Darlington and Moll is a practical gardening manual written in the late 19th century. It lays out a complete plan for designing, planting, and managing a one-acre kitchen garden, from site selection and soil preparation to tool choice, hotbeds, and crop-by-crop instructions, including small fruits. The guide emphasizes efficient layout, rotation and succession, and reliable seed selection, and it recommends specific varieties suited to home use and market quality.  The opening of the guide presents an editor’s preface explaining that two prize essays were expanded and illustrated to form a thorough, practical handbook, followed by detailed instructions on how to situate a garden (near buildings, south-facing, well-drained, sheltered from north winds), enrich heavy soils with fall manuring, and plan an east–west, near-square layout with headlands, rotations, and records. A full diagram assigns rows to grapes, brambles, strawberries, asparagus, herbs, melons, peas (followed by celery), sweet corn (followed by turnips), pole beans, cucumbers and squash, tomatoes, potatoes with interplanted late cabbage, and more. The text urges ordering reliable, often northern-grown seed early, then explains building and managing hotbeds and cold frames (dimensions, manure-heated beds, temperature cues, sowing schedules), and outlines essential tools and methods for quick, thorough cultivation. It then begins crop-specific guidance—covering asparagus, beans, beets, cabbages, cauliflower, carrots, musk melons, and celery—with concise directions on spacing, succession, pest control, harvesting cues, and storage methods such as pits, frames, and cellars, plus recommended varieties for earliness, yield, and flavor. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76930,908,'Reading ease score: 65.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76930,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76930,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76930,670);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76931,520,'"False face by Ernest Haycox" is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. Set amid a rumor-fueled land rush in central Oregon, it centers on a storekeeper-turned-deputy who must quell campsite thefts, clear a wrongly accused cowboy, and expose the true thief.  Sheriff Bart McKenzie drafts Dave Budd as deputy when a camp of hopeful homesteaders crowds his store and a brazen wallet theft stirs talk of lynching. A taciturn rider, Sam, pushes a search that “finds” the stolen wallet in the gear of fiery redheaded Bill, who had been courting a young woman also admired by Sam. Sensing a plant, Budd ties Bill lightly and lets him slip away, then baits a trap by leaving cash in a cigar box and waiting in the dark. Sam sneaks in to steal, shoots, and is shot dead by Budd, exposing him as the true culprit. Bill returns from the brush to point out Sam’s cache, the camp accepts the truth, and the innocent man is cleared. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76931,908,'Reading ease score: 84.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76931,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76931,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76931,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76932,520,'"Narrien yhteiskunnasta :  muutamia kertomuksia" by August Strindberg is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The volume satirizes social institutions—law, religion, property, and power—through sharp fables, notably a tale of castaways who try to found a perfect society. Its main figures include the pragmatic Lasse Hulling and the skeptical Peter Snagg, whose clashes frame a witty critique of utopian dreams and human nature.  The opening of the book follows a convict ship bound for New Sweden that wrecks after a storm, leaving hundreds—among them the exiled students Lasse Hulling and Peter Snagg—on a lush volcanic island. There they build a carefree, lawless “paradise” of shared abundance, discard formal religion and civil codes, and live peacefully until memory-erasing berries soothe lingering fears; the ship’s chaplain later reappears, and soon the volcano destroys the island, forcing an escape by boat. Washed onto a colder land, the survivors must hunt, then, under Lasse’s guidance, rediscover fire, salt, metals, herding, and farming; with these come property, taxes, hierarchy, war, and servitude, making Lasse a lawgiver while Peter leads a hunter faction that denounces the new agrarian life. The excerpt ends with the growing tension between these rival visions of society as comfort returns and conflict resurfaces. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76932,908,'Reading ease score: 32.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76932,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76932,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76933,520,'"Vihdoinkin by Josefina Wettergrund" is a sentimental novella written in the late 19th century. It centers on a widowed sea captain whose steadfast devotion to his late wife shapes a quiet life of duty, charity, and moral watchfulness, as he searches for a deserving young couple whose enduring love merits an unexpected inheritance.  The story follows Captain Antti Boj from his joyous youth and happy marriage to Elsa through the loss of their children and, finally, Elsa herself. Settled in a house by the churchyard, he visits her grave daily and, with his plainspoken housekeeper Mrs. Svärd, spends years seeking a couple whose affection can withstand trials over time. He observes unions that falter—one ruined by neglect and drink, another by vanity and flirtation—until he discovers a humble telegraphist’s family living downstairs: an industrious wife who protects her husband’s honor and a household kept warm by mutual care even in illness and scarcity. Quietly aiding them, he finalizes a will after their tenth wedding anniversary, and on the day their newborn daughter is baptized Elsa, he gives a parting gift and later dies peacefully at his wife’s grave, content that he has, at last, found love worthy of his trust. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76933,908,'Reading ease score: 40.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76933,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76933,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76934,520,'The blind bow-boy by Carl Van Vechten is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Harold Prewett, a sheltered heir whose estranged father hires a scandal-tinged tutor to initiate him into “life” beyond college. Moving through Jazz Age New York—from salons to sideshows—the story contrasts the allure of a witty bohemian set led by Campaspe Lorillard with the fragile innocence of Alice Blake, promising a sharp, stylish comedy of manners about experience, desire, and self‑invention.  The opening of the novel introduces Harold at a first, awkward meeting with his wealthy father, George Prewett, a cloak‑and‑suit magnate who blames college for misfitting him and vows to “unteach” his son by placing him under Paul Moody, a charming reprobate located via an advertisement seeking “good character but no moral sense.” George installs Harold in his own apartment with a worldly valet, Oliver Drains, and unlimited funds, instructing him to live as he pleases for a year. Flashbacks sketch Harold’s girl‑guarded Connecticut childhood with his eccentric Aunt Sadi and his isolated small‑college years, marked by the taunt “Cloaks and Suits.” In the city, Harold helps the tearful Alice Blake after a taxi accident and accompanies her to Jefferson Market court, where she insists on paying the truck driver’s fine with Harold’s money before retreating to her strict home. Finally, Paul’s circle—Campaspe, an incisive, feline hostess; Bunny, an avant‑garde composer; and John, a jovial broker—sweep Harold into cocktails, salon talk, and a whirlwind trip to Coney Island, where Campaspe voices a cool credo of worldly adaptability as the neon carnival becomes Harold’s first lesson in modern life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76934,908,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76934,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76934,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76934,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76935,520,'Walter Pater by Arthur Christopher Benson is a literary biography and critical study written in the early 20th century. It explores the life, temperament, and aesthetic philosophy of the Victorian critic Walter Pater, pairing narrative with close readings of his major works. The emphasis falls on Pater’s Oxford career, his method of “imaginative” criticism, and the cultural ripple of his Renaissance studies.  The opening of the book explains the absence of an official life and how the author builds his account from Pater’s sisters, friends, and published sources, then outlines the contents. It traces Pater’s quiet, observant childhood, Canterbury schooldays, and early sensitivity to beauty and ritual, notes Keble’s brief influence, and points to autobiographical threads in The Child in the House and Emerald Uthwart. At Oxford he reads Ruskin and German thinkers, takes a second in Greats, wins a Brasenose fellowship, and—after Italy and Winckelmann—shifts decisively from metaphysics to art. The narrative dwells on his austere rooms, regular habits, gentle but exacting teaching of essays, and a circle that includes Shadwell, Bywater, Pattison, and the Wards. It then surveys the early writings—Diaphaneitè, the Coleridge essay, and especially Studies in the History of the Renaissance—summarizing key essays on Botticelli, Leonardo, Michelangelo, Giorgione, and Du Bellay, and the debated “Conclusion” and its later revisions. The section closes with the reception: the aesthetic movement’s embrace, Mallock’s satirical caricature in The New Republic, and tensions with Jowett that affected Pater’s standing at Oxford. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76935,908,'Reading ease score: 44.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76935,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76935,657);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76936,520,'A practical guide for making post-mortem examinations : and for the study of… by A. R. Thomas is a medical manual written in the late 19th century. It provides step-by-step instruction for autopsies and the study of morbid anatomy, including medico-legal procedures, embalming, and specimen preservation. Aimed at practitioners and students, it stresses accurate, methodical examination of the head, chest, abdomen, and spine to support sound diagnosis and prognosis.  The opening of the manual states its purpose: to fill a practical gap by teaching physicians how to conduct post-mortems, what to look for, and how to recognize morbid changes. An introduction argues for the clinical and scientific importance of pathology and autopsy—both to refine diagnosis and prognosis and to serve medico-legal needs—followed by clear advice on instruments, room setup, hygiene precautions, timing, note-taking, and obtaining family consent. The preliminary chapter inventories a post-mortem kit and gives pragmatic guidance on protecting surroundings and oneself, then Part I begins with detailed operative procedures for opening the skull, examining the brain and base, removing the ear and eye for inspection, and exposing the spinal cord with minimal disfigurement. Early pathology sections survey skull injuries (including contre-coup fractures), bone disease, meningeal inflammation and effusions, and intracranial hemorrhage, supplemented by brief case vignettes of apoplexy and cerebral congestion. The text then sketches key brain diseases—cerebritis, softening, abscess, induration, hypertrophy, atrophy—common tumors and deposits, vascular obstruction and arterial degeneration, and parallel lesions of the spinal cord and its membranes. It closes this opening portion by initiating the neck and chest operation, describing en bloc removal and inspection of the tongue, larynx, trachea, and esophagus before turning to the thoracic cavity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76936,908,'Reading ease score: 44.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76936,681);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76936,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76936,689);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76937,520,'"Kurze Geschichte und Beschreibung der k.k. Pfarrkirche zum heiligen Carl…" is a commemorative ecclesiastical booklet written in the early 19th century. It offers a devotional historical account and architectural description of Vienna’s church dedicated to St. Charles Borromeo, likely composed for a jubilee of its consecration. The book’s topic is the founding, consecration, architecture, artworks, and later history of the church, together with a concise hagiographic sketch of its patron saint.  The narrative opens with Emperor Charles VI’s vow during a devastating plague to build a church in honor of St. Charles Borromeo, followed by the choice of site, the plan by Fischer von Erlach, the laying of the foundation, and the completion and solemn consecration under Cardinal Kollonitz, including the dedication of the high altar, six side altars, and the blessing of eight bells. It then traces the church’s stewardship by the Knights of the Cross with the Red Star, the endowment under Maria Theresa, elevation to a parish under Joseph II, and notable restorations, culminating in a jubilee context. A detailed tour describes the monumental façade with portico, dome, and twin narrative columns, the luminous interior with Rottmayr’s frescoes, altarpieces by Pellegrini, Ricci, Gran, Van Stippen, and Altomonte, imperial oratories, and treasured relics of the saint. The appended life of St. Charles highlights his reforming zeal, disciplined piety, pastoral leadership in Milan—especially his self-sacrificing response during a plague—his death and enduring veneration. The book concludes with a prayer and a nine-day order of services for the centennial celebration. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76937,908,'Reading ease score: 63.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76937,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76937,663);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76937,674);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76938,520,'"Stubborn people by Ernest Haycox" is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. The piece centers on homesteading life in Central Oregon, using a clash of pride and perseverance between two stubborn young people to explore grit, community, and reconciliation on the high desert.  Bud, the big-hearted Burnt Creek storekeeper, watches over the scattered homesteaders, including Jim Hunter, a hard-driving settler still smarting from a quarrel with Mary, a city woman he once called a “butterfly.” Determined to force an apology, Mary arrives to claim a neighboring homestead and prove her mettle, refusing Jim’s help while Bud tries to broker peace. As rumors of the dangerous drifter “Bottle-nose” Henderson spread, Bud hatches a risky plan to scare Mary into accepting protection; Jim mistakes him for the outlaw and they brawl, only for the real Bottle-nose to break into Mary’s cabin. Jim bursts in, thrashes the intruder, and in the heat of fear and relief the couple drop their pride, trade apologies, and admit they belong together. Mary stays, Jim stays, and Bud hauls the captive away, quietly satisfied that stubborn hearts have found their home. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76938,908,'Reading ease score: 82.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76938,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76938,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76938,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76939,520,'"The laws of contrast of colour : and their application to the arts of…." by M. E. Chevreul is a scientific treatise written in the mid-19th century. It sets out a rigorous theory of how adjacent colours alter one another in hue and tone, and applies these principles to painting, textiles, printing, architecture, dress, horticulture, and even military uniforms. Expect experiments, diagrams, and practical rules intended to replace vague “taste” with clear methods for creating harmonious and effective colour arrangements.  The opening of the treatise moves from prefatory material into a clear statement of purpose: to explain and prove the law of simultaneous contrast and show its uses. After noting complaints about dyes at the Gobelins that led to his discovery, the author introduces the composition of white light and the idea of complementary colours, then defines simultaneous contrast (changes in both hue and tone when colours are seen side by side) and demonstrates it with simple paper-strip experiments. He formulates the general law—that adjacent colours appear as different as possible—derives its consequences with many colour pairs, and examines effects against white, black, and grey, stressing that chemical makeup of pigments doesn’t alter the optical result. He distinguishes simultaneous, successive, and mixed contrast and shows practical pitfalls (e.g., how viewing one colour biases judgment of the next), then begins the applications by defining tones, scales, and hues, proposing a chromatic diagram, outlining harmonies of analogy and contrast, and offering early guidance on assortments—especially colours with white and complementary pairings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76939,908,'Reading ease score: 53.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76939,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76939,667);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76940,520,'"The narrative of an explorer in tropical South Africa" by Francis Galton is a historical travel narrative written in the mid-19th century. It recounts an overland expedition from the Atlantic coast at Walfisch Bay into the interior of what is now Namibia, mapping routes, assessing terrain and water, and describing encounters with Damara, Hottentot, and Ovampo communities. The work blends practical exploration logistics with ethnographic observation and reflections on missionary prospects and trade.  The opening of the book sets out the aims and scope of the journey: to fill a blank on the map between the Cape Colony and the Portuguese coast up toward Lake ’Ngami, with first reports on the Damaras, Hottentots, and the agriculturally adept Ovampo, and a case for Ondonga as a promising, healthy base for missions and trade. Galton explains why explorations advance step by step, outlines his dates and routes, and then narrates how Boer unrest blocked the usual Bechuana approach, pushing him to choose Walfisch Bay with missionary support. He details preparations—wagons, mules, pack-oxen, barter goods, servants, and dogs—followed by a stark landfall on the mirage-haunted coast, brackish wells at Sand Fountain, tobacco as currency, and the novelty of ride-oxen. Moving inland to Scheppmansdorf, he describes the mission layout and a tense series of lion encounters culminating in killing a notorious cattle-raider, then breaks in pack-oxen, distributes loads, and begins the desert crossing to the Swakop; there, heat, thirst, and a misjudged decision to leave stock unattended lead to lions taking a mule and a horse, a failed nocturnal ambush, and a sobering, reduced push onward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76940,908,'Reading ease score: 63.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76940,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76940,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76940,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76940,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76941,520,'"Naval songs and ballads" by C. H. Firth is a collection of historical ballads written in the early 20th century. It gathers English popular verse about the navy from the sixteenth to the mid-nineteenth century, using songs to illuminate battles, piracy, seamanship, and public feeling about maritime power.  The opening of this volume sets out its purpose and scope, explains the historical value of ballads, and classifies them into three main kinds: pieces by professional broadside writers, songs by sailors and officers, and politically minded works by men of letters. It then sketches a brisk literary history, from medieval and Elizabethan celebrations through Armada-era broadsides, Barbary corsair tales, and Restoration Dutch War songs, to William III’s La Hogue ballads and the rise of pirate lore (Avery, Kidd). Along the way it touches on censorship under the Commonwealth, impressment and seamen’s grievances, and the texture of shipboard culture—music, dancing, and forecastle songs—culminating in notes on stage and patriotic pieces sailors adopted, such as D’Urfey’s sea song and Purcell’s “Britons, strike home.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76941,908,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76941,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76941,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76941,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76941,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76942,520,'"Yachting wrinkles: A practical and historical handbook of valuable…." by Captain A. J. Kenealy is a practical and historical handbook written in the late 19th century. It offers accessible, experience-based guidance on yacht racing and cruising, blending history, design advice, seamanship, rules, etiquette, insurance, and costs for the competitive and recreational yachtsman. The focus is on how to choose, build, rig, and race yachts effectively, illustrated with anecdotes, diagrams, and examples from notable boats.  The opening of the handbook sets a conversational, sea-wise tone with a preface that promises practical “wrinkles” from long experience, followed by a contents map of topics from racing history to costs. It then surveys yachting from myth and antiquity through Dutch and British beginnings to American club culture, praising the sport’s clean reputation, character-building value, and naval usefulness, with lively asides (Carlyle’s cutter trip, the New York Yacht Club’s rise, and the America/Corinthian influence). Next, it turns practical: how to build or buy, materials and methods (wood, steel, bronze, aluminum), lessons from high-profile racers (Vigilant, Defender) and corrosion, why double-skin construction lasts, sample specifications (the schooner Uncas), contract tips, and even a don’t-launch-on-Friday superstition. It begins classifying types—keel, centerboard, and fin—through “epoch-making” boats, weighs safety critiques against real-world results, includes a bracing storm-run proving a centerboard sloop’s mettle, and closes with the enduring appeal of catboats, noting successful examples. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76942,908,'Reading ease score: 61.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76942,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76942,680);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76943,520,'"Muistoja ja kuvitelmia" by Aino Ackté is a collection of memoiristic essays and imaginative vignettes written in the early 20th century. It blends autobiographical recollection with symbolic tales and dreamlike scenes to explore art, love, fame, jealousy, fate, and the ache of longing from a celebrated singer’s perspective. The pieces move fluidly between real encounters and lyrical allegories, tracing how memory and imagination shape an artist’s inner life.  The opening of the collection moves from a striking dream about a snake-filled cup of envy to a heated affair between an actress and a writer that dims once physical passion erodes spiritual kinship. A gallery of rings becomes a treasury of memories—queens, mentors, a faithful childhood caretaker, and a poet—while meditations on love show devotion surviving disillusion. Consolation arrives through music and poetry as “the souls of the dead” speak, followed by parables of missed courage and punishing fate, and an image (Faleron’s angel) that rekindles the will to create. Other sketches show inspiration bound to sorrow, an exuberant hymn to the gramophone jump-starting a triumphant concert, and two contrasting unions: a marriage that withers and a free bond that, paradoxically, endures. Brief pieces portray a smile that persists even as photographs burn, a lovers’ plunge through snow to unite beyond judgment, and a wealthy woman’s inborn unrest. The section closes in a Paris studio, where a renowned painter claims to capture purity wrestling with desire in a portrait, as the narrative breaks off mid-thought. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76943,908,'Reading ease score: 41.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76943,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76943,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76943,677);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76944,520,'"Dostoevsky" by André Gide is a work of literary criticism and biographical essays written in the early 20th century. It probes the life, thought, and artistry of Fyodor Dostoevsky, arguing for his primacy as a psychologist and moral visionary whose fiction wrestles with inner, spiritual conflicts rather than merely social ones. The focus is on how Dostoevsky’s characters embody living problems—religious, ethical, and existential—rendered with vivid humanity rather than abstract doctrine.  The opening of this study presents Arnold Bennett’s introduction praising Gide’s insight and situating the book as a landmark in understanding Russian psychology, followed by a translator’s note explaining its origins as 1922 lectures and the sources quoted. Gide’s preface defends Dostoevsky against Western charges of irrationality, stressing his concern with the individual’s relation to self and God, the lifelike fluidity of his characters, and the uncompromising labor behind his art. In a long section drawn from correspondence, Gide sketches Dostoevsky’s aversion to letter-writing, lifelong poverty, humility in begging for help, ferocious work ethic and revisions, debilitating epilepsy, gambling and debts, intense family duties, and a worldview mixing Russian nationalism with a universal mission, Orthodoxy with a Christ-centered humanism, and individualism joined to self-sacrifice—all of which left him outside parties and programs. At the start of the addresses, Gide contrasts Rousseau’s self-conscious pose with Dostoevsky’s unposed humility, then recounts the youthful bohemian years, arrest in the Petrashevsky affair, mock execution, and Siberian exile, quoting letters that vividly depict the journey, brutal prison conditions, and the convict’s resilient hope and compassion he both received and offered. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76944,908,'Reading ease score: 63.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76944,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76944,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76944,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76945,520,'"Scottish toasts by Charles Welsh" is a collection of toasts, sentiments, and after‑dinner anecdotes compiled in the early 20th century. It serves as a convivial handbook, offering ready-made lines for festive gatherings, with a clear focus on Scottish patriotism, fellowship, love, humor, and the social rituals around food, song, and whisky.  The book opens with an introduction and a playful “Scotch Nicht” menu, then arranges its material into themed sections: Patriotic Toasts that praise Scotland’s landscapes, heroes, and symbols; a set of lively Volunteer and soldier anecdotes under Patriotic Scotsmen; affectionate and companionable lines in Toasts to Women, Love, Friendship; rollicking Convivial and Humourous Toasts celebrating John Barleycorn; and a batch of ribald, ironic whisky tales in Some After Dinner Stories. Further Miscellaneous Toasts and a closing Miscellany mix blessings, Scots dialect, and quotations (often from Burns and Scott), touching on bagpipes, St. Andrew’s Day, golf, and homely virtues. The result is a compact, browseable treasury designed to arm any toastmaster with a fitting line for almost any Scottish occasion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76945,908,'Reading ease score: 78.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76945,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76945,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76946,520,'"De vroolijke vrouwtjes van Windsor" by William Shakespeare is a comedic play written in the early 17th century. Set in Windsor, it follows the swaggering Sir John Falstaff as he tries to seduce two respectable wives, Mistress Ford and Mistress Page, while townsfolk—including a jealous husband, a Welsh parson, a French doctor, and suitors for young Anne Page—cross wires in schemes and counter-schemes. Expect brisk farce, marital ruses, and community mischief.  The opening of the play sets multiple plots in motion: Justice Shallow fumes over Falstaff’s poaching and is urged by Parson Evans to back his kinsman Slender as a match for Anne Page and her dowry. Falstaff blusters at Page’s house, his rogues bicker, and Evans dispatches Slender’s servant to Mistress Quickly (housekeeper to Dr. Caius) to help the courtship; Caius discovers this and challenges Evans, while the Host of the Garter tricks the would-be duel. Meanwhile, Mistress Ford and Mistress Page receive near-identical love letters from Falstaff, compare notes, and plan to lead him on for sport. Falstaff sends Quickly as go-between; Pistol and Nym warn the husbands, Page scoffs at jealousy, but Ford—disguised as “Beek”—bribes Falstaff and learns of a planned visit when Ford will be out, setting the stage for a trap. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76946,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Merry_Wives_of_Windsor https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_vrolijke_vrouwtjes_van_Windsor_(toneelstuk)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76946,908,'Reading ease score: 80.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76946,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76946,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76946,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76946,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76947,520,'"The land beyond the mist by Ernest Haycox" is a Western short story written in the early 20th century. It follows a rain-battered wagon train reaching Oregon City and turns on pioneer hardship, rough frontier justice, and the high-stakes scramble to claim fertile homestead land.  The story centers on Tom Cameron, traveling with Old Man Follett and his daughter Susan through relentless Oregon rains. Tensions with the bully Hank Emory flare in camp, then sharpen when Cameron buys from scout Sam Warner the location of a hidden valley worth settling. After Emory coaxes the secret from a drunken Warner and races to seize the claim, Cameron uses fog and a ruse to draw the rivals away, then occupies the valley with the Folletts. In the ensuing standoff, Cameron kills Emory, the brothers withdraw, the sun briefly breaks through, and hope returns as Cameron and Susan reconcile and the families plan a double cabin to begin their new homestead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76947,908,'Reading ease score: 79.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76947,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76947,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76947,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76948,520,'"Silence, and other stories" by Mary Eleanor Wilkins Freeman is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The book gathers New England local-color tales that probe women’s inner lives under social and spiritual strain; the opening piece centers on Silence Hoit and her lover David Walcott amid a frontier raid and its aftermath. Expect historical settings, moral tension, and keen psychological realism.  The opening of the collection follows Silence in wintry Deerfield as her forebodings are fulfilled by a French and Indian attack: households barricade doors, women melt pewter into bullets, Goodwife Sheldon and her child are found slain, and captives—among them David—are driven toward Canada. Left behind, Silence’s mind fixates on him, calling his name over the north meadow through months of rebuilding and rescue attempts; when David finally escapes home, she cannot recognize him until the ostracized Goody Crane contrives a moonlit sign that breaks her trance. The book then turns to “The Buckley Lady,” introducing Persis Buckley, a beautiful coastal girl whose family, after a visit from grand strangers, begins grooming her for gentility—freeing her from toil, dressing her finely, and teaching her polite accomplishments—while the household quietly sacrifices to elevate her. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76948,908,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76948,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76948,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76949,520,'"War letters from the living dead man" by David Patterson Hatch is a collection of spiritualist letters written in the early 20th century. It presents purported communications from a deceased American judge, “X,” channeled through Elsa Barker, who reports from the afterlife on the unseen forces shaping the Great War. Blending battlefield vignettes with esoteric teaching, it explores karma, elemental beings, the struggle of love versus hate, and a call to universal brotherhood under the guidance of a Teacher and an angelic “Beautiful Being.”  The opening of the work sets the stage through Barker’s introduction, detailing her automatic writing method, her cautious skepticism, and incidents she takes as evidence, then moves into the first letters in which “X” returns from a starry sojourn to confront demonic forces driving the war and assures that the powers of good will ultimately prevail. Early letters depict astral battles, monstrous elementals, the Archduke’s troubled after-death state, a sharp critique of Prussianized Germany coupled with a plea to love one’s enemies, and Belgium’s suffering framed through karmic “spectres of the Congo.” Further chapters offer scenes of unseen guardians protecting a Belgian home, consolation for the bereaved via a reincarnation-as-day metaphor, an angelic discourse on love and hate, and teachings on Humanity as one body, the inner “foeman,” and the danger of over-climaxing any rhythm. The narrative includes reading soldiers’ thoughts in Brussels, a prophecy of a coming Sixth Race centered in America, praise of France’s civility and restraint (with Abraham Lincoln watching over the U.S.), and closes this opening stretch with a glimpse of Masters debating how to soften the war’s end and a warning about will-driven “magic” that forces outcomes against the larger law. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76949,908,'Reading ease score: 74.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76949,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76949,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76950,520,'"The ghost of Charlotte Cray, and other stories" by Florence Marryat is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The tales lean toward the supernatural and domestic melodrama, exploring jealousy, guilt, and the persistence of wronged affections beyond the grave. Early standouts feature a complacent publisher haunted by a former lover he mistreated, and a London doctor whose rural retreat turns into a study in uncanny repetition and family tragedy.  The opening of this collection follows Mr. Sigismund Braggett, a newly married publisher who once encouraged the hopes of an eager “authoress,” Charlotte Cray. After Charlotte dies, Braggett’s clerks, his household, and finally his wife encounter her presence; the apparition appears in his office before dissolving, prompting him to abandon business, knowing Charlotte has kept her vow to “see” his wife. The next story begins with a physician seeking rest at the isolated Rushmere, where he, his wife Jane, and their servants hear creeping footsteps, sobs, and the phantom crack of a gun; terror drives them to an inn. There, the landlord’s wife reveals the house’s past: an asthmatic master, Greenslade, shot his estranged daughter Emily on the stairs and hanged himself, and the nightly sounds are the fatal scene replaying itself. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76950,908,'Reading ease score: 68.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76950,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76950,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76950,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76951,520,'"Il piccolo Eyolf : dramma in tre atti" by Henrik Ibsen is a play written in the late 19th century. It is a domestic-psychological drama centered on Alfredo Allmers, his wife Rita, their disabled son Eyolf, and Alfredo’s half-sister Asta, probing guilt, responsibility, and the clash between eros and parental duty. A symbolic outsider, the Rat-Wife, threads superstition and fatalism through the family’s unrest.  The opening of the play presents the Allmers’ elegant fjord-side home, where Rita and Asta greet the unexpectedly returned Alfredo. He confesses he has written nothing and declares he will abandon his grand book on “human responsibility” to devote himself to Eyolf, a thoughtful boy who walks with a crutch and dreams of soldiering. The enigmatic Rat-Wife appears, telling how she lures pests to their deaths, unsettling the household just before shouts from the shore reveal a drowning; Eyolf’s crutch is seen floating, and panic turns to devastation. At the start of the next act, Alfredo and Asta sit by the water in rain and grief, stitching mourning crepe while he wrestles with meaning and memory; Borgheim’s presence hints at Asta’s unresolved future, and a raw confrontation between Rita and Alfredo lays bare jealousy, blame for past neglect, and the painful sense that love and responsibility within the family have been fatally misaligned. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76951,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_Eyolf https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Il_piccolo_Eyolf',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76951,908,'Reading ease score: 59.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76951,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76951,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76952,520,'"The works of John Dryden, now first collected in eighteen volumes. Volume 17." by John Dryden is a collection of literary translations, criticism, and polemical prose written in the late 17th century. This volume gathers his Life of Plutarch with a grand dedication to the Duke of Ormond, a specimen from his translation of the History of the League, a theological exchange with Edward Stillingfleet, and his English version of Du Fresnoy’s The Art of Painting alongside a celebrated parallel between poetry and painting. It showcases the author as biographer, translator, critic, and royalist controversialist. Expect erudite classical scholarship, vigorous prose, and wide-ranging reflections on history, art, politics, and religion.  The opening of the volume frames the context of the 1680s English Plutarch with an editor’s note and a bookseller’s advertisement, then unveils a lofty dedication to the Duke of Ormond. In that dedication, the writer contrasts ancient greatness with modern decline, praises Ormond’s fidelity and governance of Ireland, castigates sectaries, republicans, and inconstant ex-royalists, and defends honest history against bigotry and partisan fabrication. It then proceeds to the Life of Plutarch, sketching his birth at Chæronea, family and teacher Ammonius, the humane cast of Greek education, his travels and relentless collection of sources, and his temperate, sociable character. The narrative outlines his Platonic-leaning philosophy, his ideas on oracles and intermediary spirits, his marriage to Timoxena and children, his Roman connections (notably Sossius Senecio and Trajan), and his likely public employments. It closes this opening stretch by weighing the uses and kinds of history—annals, history proper, and biography—and arguing for the special force and instruction found in lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76952,908,'Reading ease score: 48.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76952,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76952,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76952,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76953,520,'"Dawid se reis na Groenland" by David Binney Putnam is a nonfiction travel narrative written in the early 20th century. It follows a teenage boy’s first‑person account of a summer expedition aboard the schooner Morrissey under Captain Bob Bartlett, collecting specimens and film in Arctic Greenland while meeting Eskimo communities and navigating ice, storms, and wildlife. The tone mixes lively adventure with practical, educational detail aimed at curious young readers.  The opening of this account sets the scene with Captain Bartlett’s foreword praising David’s grit and explaining the book’s purpose: to inspire boys toward outdoor challenge. David then describes refitting the Morrissey, introducing the crew, gear, and radio, and their celebratory send‑off from Long Island Sound before rough weather, seasickness, and thunderstorms on the run to Nova Scotia and through the Strait of Belle Isle, where they meet their first icebergs and pack‑ice. After shipboard lectures, films, and ice navigation drills, they reach Greenland: at Holsteinsborg they land Professor Hobbs for glacial studies, trade and film, then move on to Disko (Godhavn) and Proven to barter for kamiks, ivory carvings, and model kayaks while avoiding taking essentials. In Upernivik they watch expert kayak‑rolling (and see Robert Peary Jr. dunked), help feed sled dogs, and visit eider‑duck islands to gather down, eggs, and specimens amid traces of old whalers. Crossing Melville Bay unusually easily, they water from a glacier at Cape York, trade for a kayak, net little auks, stalk seals, and rope down sea cliffs for eggs and nests. This opening section ends as the Morrissey, searching for local hunters near Northumberland Island, strikes a hidden rock in calm conditions and the crew scrambles to respond. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76953,908,'Reading ease score: 83.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76953,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76953,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76953,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76954,520,'"The history of the Norman conquest of England, its causes and its results,…." by Edward A. Freeman is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It presents a comprehensive, source-based narrative of how Norman power rose and reshaped England, examining causes, principal actors, conflicts, and lasting effects. This volume focuses on the reign of Eadward the Confessor and the early years of William of Normandy, charting the political contest between English and Norman interests before open war in 1066. Readers can expect close chronology, institutional context, and sharply drawn portraits of Godwine, Harold, and Eadward that set the stage for the Conquest.  The opening of this history outlines a five-volume plan: this volume covers the political struggle under Eadward the Confessor (1042–1051), a later one treats the campaigns of 1066, another William’s rule in England, and a final volume the long-term results. After acknowledgments, the narrative begins with Eadward’s popular election following Harthacnut’s death, the unusual delay of his coronation (explained by his absence and hesitancy), and an embassy—led by Godwine and Bishop Lyfing—that persuades him to accept the crown. A Witenagemot at Gillingham faces resistance from partisans of Swend Estrithson, but Eadward is eventually crowned at Winchester amid embassies from Germany, France, and Norway; English magnates offer gifts, notably Godwine’s splendid warship. The author then sketches Eadward’s character: revered as a saint yet ill-suited to rule, conscientious but passive, prone to bursts of anger, fond of hunting, and inclined toward foreign favourites—early signs of the Norman influence that grows under his reign. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76954,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_History_of_the_Norman_Conquest_of_England',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76954,908,'Reading ease score: 60.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76954,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76954,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76954,664);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76955,520,'Nora''s twin sister by Nina Rhoades is a children''s novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Nora O’Neil, a bright, poor West Side girl, and Kathleen Crawford, her wealthy counterpart on Fifth Avenue—identical twins separated in infancy without knowing it. A chance encounter leads to recognition, secrecy, and a daring exchange that tests loyalty and identity. The story foregrounds class contrasts, a mother’s steadfast love, and a girl’s imagination and integrity.  The opening of the novel shows Nora spinning stories for measles-stricken neighbor children and hinting at a “twin sister” who seems imaginary but isn’t. We learn Nora lives with her widowed mother, a hardworking reporter, who secretly watches a Fifth Avenue mansion because Kathleen, the adopted twin, lives there. On a Sunday, a deaf cook mistakes Nora for Kathleen and ushers her into the Crawford home; the girls meet, and Nora reveals the truth, binding them in an instant, tender allegiance. Kathleen—lonely despite her luxury—later visits Nora’s mother in the studio, and the three share a rapturous reunion; to prolong it, the twins swap places for a night, with Nora “playing” Kathleen at the mansion, navigating stern Sarah, kind Selma, and dinner service, while earlier school scenes spotlight Nora’s ethics as she refuses to cheat on a composition. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76955,908,'Reading ease score: 77.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76955,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76955,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76955,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76956,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no.…" by R. Chambers (Secundus) is a Victorian-era general-interest periodical issue published in the late 19th century. It offers a miscellany of nature writing, serialized fiction, travel reportage, colonial development, legal advice, short stories, and verse, broadly focused on everyday life, current progress, and popular instruction.  This issue opens with Richard Jefferies’s luminous autumn essay on English forests, hedgerows, and gypsy life, contrasting roaming Romany camps with rooted farm labourers. Its serial, By Order of the League (ch. XIX), stages a dramatic unmasking: Hector le Gautier is exposed in Sir Geoffrey Charteris’s house by Lucrece Visci and Isodore—revealed as Genevieve—then condemned by the League when “Marie St Jean” turns out to be Isodore herself; finally, Valerie frees him from his bonds. A genial travel sketch, Christmas in a Dâk Bungalow, recounts a solitary Anglo-Indian Christmas of duck-shooting, a children’s service, and wry talk with the servant Zacharias. Two short tales follow: A Novel Adventure, where a traveller subdues a knife-wielding roommate only to find him rehearsing a murder scene; and Was It Murder?, a stoker who pushes a deranged driver off a speeding engine to save a packed train and later seeks moral absolution. A substantial survey, Some Aspects of Canadian Progress, charts the Canadian Pacific Railway’s route, branch schemes, trade (notably tea via Vancouver), prairie settlement, and the rise of towns from Winnipeg to Vancouver. Popular Legal Fallacies gives plain advice on making wills—attestation, revocation by marriage, and testamentary capacity—while Occasional Notes consider Atlantic “greyhounds” and curious army panics; a closing poem, The Two Seas, meditates on trust in sleep and death. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76956,908,'Reading ease score: 65.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76956,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76957,520,'"Ja hi van al África :  Pessa patriótica en un acte by J. A. Ferrer Fernández" is a patriotic one-act play written in the mid-19th century. The piece, composed in verse, stages a civic send-off for Catalan volunteers heading to the African campaign, blending martial zeal, communal pride, and intimate family feeling.  Set in Barcelona during a time of mobilization, the action opens in a public square where D. Lluís and local youths praise the surge of enlistments. Jaume, an elderly farmer, is refused as too old, while his son Jordi prepares to depart; Margarida fears for him, and Doloretas—Jordi’s young wife and cantinière—vows to accompany him bravely. The scene shifts to the waterfront thronged with townspeople, vendors, officials, and musicians. Rousing speeches exalt Catalonia and Spain as the volunteers, bearing a banner of the Virgin of Montserrat, are blessed by family and cheered by choruses of women and men. After emotional farewells and vows of courage, Jordi leads the call to embark. Amid music, salutes, and cannon fire, the volunteers board the boats and depart for Africa, leaving the city echoing with proud goodbyes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76957,908,'Reading ease score: 70.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76957,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76958,520,'"Over the straits by Ernest Haycox" is a sea‑adventure short story written in the early 20th century. It follows a small Alaskan cannery tender battling a violent storm to rush a cargo of perishable red salmon to the cannery, highlighting duty, risk, and quiet courage at sea.  The crew of the Star leaves Ketchikan at dusk despite gale warnings because their hold is full of valuable Sockeyes that will soon spoil. Narrator Hal takes the wheel beside skipper Bob as engineer Al minds the engines, with Ed, Milt, Charlie, and the old cook bracing for the blow. In the straits they fight towering seas, a screaming wind, and the fear of a loose mast stay; the rolling threatens to throw the heavy seine table overboard, and Ed’s attempt to lash it fails in the blackness. The engine coughs, the Morey Light can’t be found, and exhaustion grinds them as they nurse the boat through a night of blind troughs and hammering spray. At dawn they limp into Cannery Inlet, scrape pilings, and dock, their understatement and weary jokes masking the grit that carried them across. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76958,908,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76958,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76958,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76958,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76959,520,'"Korsikan veljekset" by Alexandre Dumas is a novella written in the mid-19th century. It centers on Corsican twin brothers—Lucian on the island and Louis in Paris—whose uncanny bond intersects with the island’s traditions of honor and vendetta, as seen through the eyes of a traveling narrator. Expect an atmospheric blend of travelogue, family legend, and tension between old codes and modern law.  The opening of the novella follows a narrator arriving in Corsica in 1841, lodging with Madame Savilia de Franchi and meeting her son Lucian, while his twin Louis studies in Paris. The narrator is immersed in village life, fortified houses, and the vendetta culture; Lucian shows ancestral weapons and recounts a family history of blood-feud and prophetic apparitions tied to the twins. Acting as a mediator, Lucian arranges a nocturnal meeting with the outlaw Orlandi and orchestrates a public reconciliation between the feuding Orlandi and Colonna clans, solemnized in the church and notarized in the square. The section ends with the narrator preparing to depart, bearing a letter to Louis and carrying a vivid first impression of Corsican customs and the twins’ mysterious connection. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76959,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Corsican_Brothers',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76959,908,'Reading ease score: 43.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76959,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76959,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76959,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76960,520,'"The corsair; or, the little fairy at the bottom of the sea :  A new Christmas…" by William Brough is a comic burlesque pantomime from the mid-19th-century Victorian era. Built on the popular ballet Le Corsaire and winking at Byron’s pirate romance, it mixes fairy spectacle, slapstick, and melodrama. Its likely topic is a swashbuckling pirate story turned into a playful Christmas entertainment in which love and magic try to reform a notorious corsair.  The plot follows Conrad, a moody pirate, whose fate becomes the business of sea-fairies led by Serena, who vows to redeem him through love. On shore he rescues the vivacious Medora from a slave market, then survives a fairy-made shipwreck, only to be betrayed by his lieutenant Birbanto, who helps the renegade Yussuf abduct Medora. Serena thwarts a mutiny, and Conrad infiltrates the Pasha’s harem in disguise, duels Birbanto, and is captured. To save him, Medora pretends to accept the Pasha’s proposal, while Gulnare cunningly marries the Pasha herself under a veil. Medora frees Conrad and they escape; the Pasha discovers he is wed to Gulnare; in the woods Birbanto’s coup collapses as guards arrive and Serena grants mercy to the reformed lovers. A general reconciliation follows: the pirate vows domestic respectability, Gulnare secures her marriage, even the villains promise reform, and the piece ends in a sparkling Peri-led transformation to harlequinade. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76960,908,'Reading ease score: 82.3 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76960,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76960,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76960,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76960,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76961,520,'"The literature of the Celts" by Magnus Maclean is a scholarly survey of Celtic literary history written in the early 20th century. It introduces general readers to the origins, manuscripts, myths, saints, and revivals of Celtic writing, from Ogam stones and early Gaelic-Latin texts through monastic learning to saga cycles and their European influence. The work maps key sources, periods, and scholars, arguing for the richness and enduring significance of the Celtic tradition.  The opening of this study sets out the surge of modern interest in Celtic studies, citing Continental scholarship, Kuno Meyer’s optimism, and Yeats’s hopes for Celtic legend, before explaining the book’s aim as a concise, popular guide distilled from university lectures. It then sketches, in Chapter I, the historical backdrop of the Celts in Europe, their migrations and conquests, the linguistic split between Gadelic (Q) and Brittonic (P) branches, classical testimony from Greek and Roman writers, and the eventual literary awakening marked by Ogam inscriptions, the adoption of the Roman script, and early monastic texts; it also notes that the earliest sustained Gaelic appears in glosses and marginalia on the Continent, and situates Celtic within the Aryan language family. Chapter II focuses on St. Patrick as the first clearly identifiable Celtic writer, recounting the reliable sources on his life, his captivity and call, and summarizing his surviving works—the Latin “Confession” and “Epistle to Coroticus,” and the Gaelic lorica known as the “Deer’s Cry”—while acknowledging uncertain dates and later legendary dialogues. The start of Chapter III introduces St. Columba as Scotland’s earliest man of letters, a scholar-poet whose Iona community kindled a lasting literary and religious renaissance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76961,908,'Reading ease score: 56.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76961,655);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76961,646);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76962,520,'"No ebook by that number.." is a collection of satirical stories written in the early 20th century. Its lead tale appears to be a sharp social fable that follows castaways who attempt to build an ideal society from scratch, only to drift toward hierarchy, dogma, and conflict. The focus falls on Lasse Hulling, the pragmatic optimist, Peter Snagg, the skeptic, and a priest whose roles and beliefs shift as their community evolves. Expect biting commentary on law, religion, property, and “progress.”  The opening of the collection recounts how a transport ship wrecks, depositing hundreds of people—including two students, Lasse Hulling and Peter Snagg—on a lush volcanic island where food, warmth, and shelter are effortless. In this Edenic ease they reject laws and formal religion, live peacefully, and even discover berries that erase painful memories, until the priest (Axonius) reappears and the volcano forces a flight by canoe. Cast onto a cold land, they become hunters, then, through fire, salt, and metals, slide into tribute, craft specialization, slavery, warfare, herding, and farming; Lasse consolidates power while Peter leads proud hunter bands opposed to settled life. What begins as carefree equality steadily hardens into institutions, scarcity, and struggle—an ironic arc from paradise to civilization. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76962,908,'Reading ease score: 32.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76962,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76962,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76962,638);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76963,520,'"The Silver Glen: A Story of the Rebellion of 1715" by Bessie Dill is a historical novel written in the early 20th century. The tale evokes the 1715 Jacobite rising as remembered in 1755 by Barbara, Lady Fleming, drawing on authentic letters by Lady Erskine of Alva. It follows orphan Barbara Stewart as she finds a new home with Sir John and Lady Catherine Erskine, where family warmth, a clandestine silver mine, and rising political undercurrents entwine with figures like Betty Sinclair, David Pitcairn, and the anxious workers in the Silver Glen.  The opening of the novel frames Barbara’s purpose: prompted by Sir Henry Erskine’s discovery of his mother’s letters, she resolves to record her memories of 1715 and the Erskine household. The narrative then shifts to Barbara’s youth, when she is summoned from school to Rosyth, crosses the wintry Forth, and reaches her grandfather, Colonel Stewart, in time to receive his last guidance—placing her in the care of Lady Catherine Erskine and Charles Erskine. After his death (and the loss of faithful Robert), Barbara goes to Alva, where Sir John’s genial charm, Lady Catherine’s steady kindness, and the lively presence of their young sons create a welcoming home. Daily life unfolds in scenes of estate improvements, talk of English and Scottish farming, and the discreet revelation of the secret silver mine in the Ochils; Barbara meets the household circle—including dour Aunt Betty, sparkling Betty Sinclair with her escort David Pitcairn, and the suave James Hamilton—and is led into the Silver Glen itself, where awe, danger, and an unwelcome flirtation hint at the tensions and intrigues to come. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76963,908,'Reading ease score: 69.0 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76963,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76963,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76964,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 70, No. 432, October, 1851" by Various is a literary periodical written in the mid-19th century. It offers a curated mix of criticism, social and political reflection, travel writing, and serialized fiction typical of Victorian taste, including a substantial review of Arthur Helps’s essays and a new installment of “My Novel; or, Varieties in English Life.” The issue ranges across labor and sanitation reform, law and church questions, debates on slavery, urban morality, and continental affairs, while also carrying imaginative narrative.  The opening of the magazine begins with a long, thoughtful critique of Mr. Helps’s works—dismissing his earliest moral essays as bland, praising his later “Companions of my Solitude,” and engaging his arguments on labor duties, public health legislation, slavery’s injustices (urging education toward gradual change), legal and church reform, and the “sin of great cities.” It then shifts to the serial “My Novel,” where Lord L’Estrange, shadowed by a lost love and resisting a dynastic match, debates purpose with his parents and with statesman Audley Egerton, muses on marriage as finding and forming a worthy soul, and fatefully encounters Leonard Fairfield and the ailing Helen. L’Estrange rescues Helen, recognizes Leonard’s talent and pride, reads his manuscripts, and offers two paths—government service or letters—leading Leonard to choose literature under the guidance of author Henry Norreys, who takes him in as an amanuensis and sets him to disciplined work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76964,908,'Reading ease score: 55.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76964,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76965,520,'"The counterfeiters :  (Les faux-monnayeurs) by André Gide is a novel written in the early 20th century. A polyphonic coming‑of‑age story set in Paris, it intertwines the lives of youths, writers, and worldly schemers to examine authenticity, moral compromise, and the forging of identity. Early focal figures include the defiant student Bernard Profitendieu, his sensitive friend Olivier Molinier, the literary uncle Edouard, and the calculating aristocrat Robert de Passavant.  The opening follows Bernard as he discovers a hidden letter proving his illegitimacy, coolly abandons his bourgeois home, and secretly spends the night in Olivier’s room near the Luxembourg Gardens. At home, Judge Profitendieu reels from Bernard’s scathing farewell and shields the rest of the family with a lie, while his wife’s guilt resurfaces. In hushed, nocturnal talks, Bernard and Olivier trade confidences—Olivier’s awkward first sexual encounter and suspicions about their older brother Vincent’s entanglement with a woman. The scene shifts to Vincent, who, burdened by his pregnant lover Laura, is drawn into the orbit of the suave Passavant and the seductive Lady Lilian; a night of gambling brings Vincent a sudden windfall even as Passavant’s father dies upstairs and a younger brother keeps vigil. At dawn, Bernard slips out into Paris with only a few coins, buoyed by hunger, freedom, and the promise of “adventure.” (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76965,908,'Reading ease score: 75.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76965,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76965,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76965,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76966,520,'"The phantom public" by Walter Lippmann is a treatise on democratic theory written in the early 20th century. It argues that the omnicompetent, sovereign citizen imagined by democratic dogma does not exist, and that public opinion is intermittent, external to real decision-making, and best used to align force behind workable rules rather than to govern directly. The work reframes elections as mobilizations that substitute for civil war and proposes practical limits and responsibilities for the public’s role in politics.  The opening of this work portrays a disengaged citizenry and uses evidence of widespread nonvoting to show that expecting the public to master complex affairs is unrealistic. It dismisses standard remedies—better schooling, moral exhortation, more direct democracy, or socialization of industry—as unable to produce an all-knowing public, and recasts citizens chiefly as bystanders whose votes align support rather than direct policy. It then sketches an ideal of public action: to neutralize arbitrary force, enable settlements by consent, and leave substantive problem-solving to those directly responsible, with government acting as a professional intermediary. Next, it defines “problems” as disharmonies created by uneven change (illustrated by population pressure, automobiles in cities, naval ratios, and economic scarcity), and argues that rights and duties are enforceable promises shaping a workable modus vivendi. Finally, it says the public should ask only two questions—whether a rule is defective and who can mend it—using coarse tests of assent and conformity, insisting on open debate to expose special pleading, and, at scale, choosing between Ins and Outs when crises persist. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76966,908,'Reading ease score: 51.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76966,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76966,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76966,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76967,520,'"Princess Puck" by Una L. Silberrad is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in rural England, it follows Wilhelmina “Bill” Alardy, the awkward youngest niece of a fading schoolmistress, as she is sent to Ashelton to “grow up” amid village routines, gossip, and farm life. Around Bill orbit her poised cousin Theresa, Theresa’s flawed farmer-husband Robert Morton, and the outsider-farmer Gilchrist Harborough, with clergy and local ladies shaping the social weather. It reads as a domestic and social coming-of-age, attentive to class, marriage, and the gap between ideal and ordinary human nature.  The opening of the story traces the decision to send Bill from Miss Brownlow’s declining school in Wrugglesby to stay with the newly married Theresa at Ashelton. Bill’s blunt conversations with schoolmates reveal her curiosity about men, marriage, and propriety, and her inner life is set against Theresa’s tidy new household. At Haylands farm, Bill cheerfully throws herself into chores, while Robert Morton’s drunken return from market—managed discreetly by Bill with the help of neighbor Harborough—introduces the first crack in Theresa’s ideal marriage. Bill later debates Harborough about loyalty, weakness, and what wives can bear, and she begins to meet Ashelton society through a prayer-meeting led by the self-satisfied curate, tea visits with observant spinsters, and Sunday church with the shadowy Harborough family chapel. She mimics the curate in private, takes in the village’s talk of old county families, and finds a county history bearing her grandmother’s name. The section closes with Bill, map in hand, setting out to walk toward Gurnett, her curiosity pulling her further into the district’s people and places. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76967,908,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76967,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76967,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76968,520,'"Straußenpolitik :  Neue Tierfabeln" by Th. Zell is a collection of popular zoological essays written in the early 20th century. The work challenges common “animal fables” and anthropomorphic assumptions, replacing them with evidence-based explanations from natural history and field observation. It examines the adaptive logic behind animal form and behavior, from hippos and giraffes to predators, domesticates, and birds, arguing that utility, ecology, and risk—not human-like motives—drive what animals do. The tone is skeptical yet accessible, appealing to readers who enjoy myth-busting about the natural world.  The opening of the book sets the program: a brief foreword promises a continuation of earlier myth critiques, then the author refutes “improvers” who claim nature botched the hippo and giraffe, showing why bulk, long legs, and browsing diets are advantageous and why zoo feeding misleads. He distinguishes shame from guilt, arguing animals likely lack shame but may show guilt or awareness, illustrated with dogs, goats, and an ape understanding consequences, while reinterpreting feline “embarrassment” as hunting limits or habit. He explains predators’ caution toward humans as rational risk-avoidance given our unpredictable weapons, not awe of upright posture, and notes how hunger or infirmity yields man-eaters. He disputes that only herd animals can be domesticated, contrasting tameable solitary species (lynx, cheetah) with dangerous or impractical herd species, and stresses danger, temperament, and human utility as the real factors. He recasts equine “nervousness” as justified vigilance of fleeing herbivores shaped by predation, illustrated by zebras, deer startling at sudden events, and the contrasting boldness of defensive bovines. Finally, he questions claims that animals “admire themselves” in mirrors, using a titmouse at a mirror to argue recognition is misread, before the discussion cuts off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76968,908,'Reading ease score: 66.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76968,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76968,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76968,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76968,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76969,520,'"Jock''s inheritance" by Amy Le Feuvre is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows capable, kind‑spirited Orris Coventry, who accepts work cataloguing a great country‑house library while caring for her lively niece, Pippa. In the secluded world of Pinestones, she contends with the formidable housekeeper Mrs. Snow, her exacting sister‑in‑law Venetia, and the return of disinherited Jock Muir, whose presence stirs questions of justice, duty, and affection. Village gossip, a rumored ill‑omened house, and the pull of the farmland frame a tale of character and belonging.  The opening of the novel introduces Orris in London, where a desperate letter from her sister‑in‑law Venetia (ruined by a failed oil scheme and abandoned by her fiancé) brings Venetia and little Pippa to her flat. Offered the chance to order and catalogue the Muirs’ famous library at Pinestones by Mrs. Calthrop, Orris moves to the pine‑ringed estate with Pippa and their maid, settling into the old nursery while the child thrives in the fresh air and befriends villagers. As Orris works, she meets local figures—the shy Miss Dashwood, the Rector, and author Mr. Dunscombe—and is startled when Jock Muir, the disinherited nephew, slips in through a window, befriends Pippa, and explains how he was edged out of his childhood home. Jock’s light, impulsive charm, his love of farming, and his frank interest in Orris contrast with Mrs. Snow’s hostility and with talk of nearby Ivy Towers, said to bring misfortune, where new tenants arrive and promptly lose their servants. After a tea visit to Dunscombe and the welcoming Prestons at Lilac Farm, Jock vows to help on the land and continues to visit—playfully revealing a hidden “powder‑room” and urging Orris to accept scholarly help. The section ends with Venetia’s arrival at Pinestones, bringing tension and setting up conflicts in the household. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76969,908,'Reading ease score: 82.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76969,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76969,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76969,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76970,520,'"The orphan nieces : or, Duty and inclination" by Lucy Ellen Guernsey is a novel written in the mid-19th century. The story follows Olive and Abby McHenry, orphaned sisters living with their uncle and aunt, as Olive pursues independence through teaching amid family tensions with her jealous cousin Charlotte and socially ambitious relatives. Blending school life, domestic trials, and early courtship, it weighs duty against inclination—especially when the charming yet idle William Forester enters their circle. Readers of moral domestic fiction and character-driven tales of young women seeking self-reliance will find its themes front and center.  The opening of the novel centers on Olive’s school days at Mrs. Granger’s, where Charlotte’s barbs about dependence push Olive to consider teaching; encouraged by her friend Helen, she writes to her uncle and redoubles her studies, unexpectedly winning the top mathematics prize and weathering Charlotte’s public outburst. At home, her uncle supports her plan, her aunt initially opposes it but relents, and Olive and Charlotte move toward a fragile truce while Abby is groomed as a social favorite; Aunt Dimsden and Laura embody showy, status-driven values. During Olive’s final term, she practices teaching, reflects on motives for study, deflects shallow pity from idle classmates, and secures a promising position in Pennsylvania. Returning home, she senses Abby’s new volatility as William Forester pays marked attention; Laura hints at past proposals, Abby reacts emotionally, and Olive and Charlotte quietly worry about Abby’s entanglement while Charlotte, feeling aimless, considers setting herself a disciplined course of study. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76970,908,'Reading ease score: 71.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76970,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76970,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76971,520,'The black spaniel, and other stories by Robert Hichens is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. It opens with a psychological tale of moral conflict and obsession over animal cruelty and vivisection, centering on the cultured traveler Vernon Kersteven, the eminent physician Dr. Peter Deeming, and their mutual friend who narrates. The volume likely ranges from European salons to North African deserts, blending society drama with eerie undercurrents and atmospheric travel pieces.  The opening of the collection follows the narrator as he introduces Deeming to Vernon in Rome, where a dinner debate over animals turns heated after Vernon reveals his beloved spaniel was stolen and used for vivisection. Back in England, events take a tense, uncanny turn: Deeming abruptly leaves Rome, looks ill at Dover, and Vernon soon rents the house next door in Wimpole Street, shrouding his motives. The narrator’s attempt to draw out Deeming’s “black spaniel” ends with his own fox-terrier yelping in pain inside Deeming’s house and fleeing; shortly after, while the narrator is away, news arrives that Deeming has died from blood poisoning caused by a dog bite. A year later, Vernon—now an active animal advocate—impulsively buys a black spaniel from a street seller and receives the narrator for tea in the renovated, conjoined Wimpole Street houses, leaving the mystery and tension around the dog and Deeming’s shadow very much alive. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76971,908,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76971,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76971,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76972,520,'"Mitä on taide?" by graf Leo Tolstoy is a philosophical treatise written in the late 19th century. It examines what art is, why it matters, and whom it should serve, sharply challenging the era’s worship of “beauty” and the prestige institutions of opera, ballet, museums, and criticism. The work pushes toward an ethical, socially grounded understanding of art rather than elite entertainment.  The opening of the work portrays a world saturated with arts coverage and lavishly funded cultural institutions, then contrasts this with the exhausting, demeaning labor behind a fashionable opera rehearsal—petty tyrannies, empty spectacle, and a trivial, artificial plot—while calling ballet’s erotic display immoral. From there it asks who benefits from such “art,” whether its vast costs are justified, and why criticism is so contradictory. It questions the common identification of art with “beauty,” noting how the term stretches absurdly to cooking, dress, and even smell and touch, and then surveys a cacophony of aesthetic theories (from Baumgarten and Winckelmann through Kant, Schiller, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, Herbart, Schopenhauer, and others) to show their incompatibility and obscurity. The start thus sets up a rigorous inquiry by demonstrating that current definitions of art and beauty are confused, unstable, and ethically unmoored. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76972,500,'https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mit%C3%A4_on_taide%3F',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76972,908,'Reading ease score: 27.8 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76972,675);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76972,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76972,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76973,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 74, No. 454, August, 1853" by Various is a literary periodical written in the mid-19th century. It presents a curated mix of essays, travel writing, literary criticism, current-affairs commentary, and serialized fiction, marrying scientific curiosity with social observation and narrative flair. Readers encounter pieces that move from the chemistry and culture of everyday stimulants to political portraits and adventurous journeys.  The opening of the issue lists its contents and begins with “The Narcotics We Indulge In,” a sweeping essay that explains how different cultures meet the human craving for solace and stimulation, then closely examines tobacco (its global spread, manners of use, physiological effects, and active principles) and hops (their English cultivation, role in beer, soothing properties, and adulteration in low-grade brews). It notes the social and economic costs tied to these plants, from soil exhaustion to the entanglement of tobacco with slavery, and briefly reflects on how habitual narcotics may shape national character. A subsequent article, “South American Travel and Adventure,” opens with Dr. Weddell’s ascent into the Bolivian Andes—soroche at the high passes, vicuña hunting, glimpses of La Paz society (including the attempted assassination of President Belzu), and an ultimately fruitless gold probe at the marsh of La Lancha—before moving to the Yungas for scenes of mission life, fish-stunning poisons, and the harsh lot of bark-gatherers. Interleaved are Theodore Pavie’s vivid sketches from the Pampas, including a lively post-house tableau that seeds tension between a muleteer and a convoy chief over the innkeeper’s daughter. This summary covers only the beginning of the issue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76973,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackwood%27s_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76973,908,'Reading ease score: 55.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76973,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76974,520,'"At home in Fiji" by C. F. Gordon Cumming is a travel memoir written in the late 19th century. It follows a British traveler attached to Governor Sir Arthur Gordon’s household as she journeys via Australia to newly annexed Fiji, recording landscapes, colonial society, Fijian chiefs and customs, and missionary influence. Blending letters, reportage, and nature sketches, it dwells on daily life in Levuka and outlying islands during a turbulent transition to British rule. Readers who enjoy Pacific history, ethnography, and vivid scene-painting will find it appealing.  The opening of the work first sets out the political backdrop: Fiji’s cession to Britain, speeches by chiefs Thakombau and Maafu, Sir Hercules Robinson’s role, the appointment of Sir Arthur Gordon, early administrative reforms, and economic prospects amid the devastation of a measles epidemic. The narrative then shifts to the author’s journey—assembling the Governor’s party, sailing out, and pausing in Sydney for social calls and excursions to the Blue Mountains and the bush—punctuated by the shocking account of Commodore Goodenough’s death in the Santa Cruz Islands. She finally reaches Levuka with Royal Engineers and missionaries, finds Government preparations incomplete, and sketches the hardships of provisioning and household management. Early encounters include formal meetings with chiefs, yangona rituals and mékés, and a stark chronicle of the measles catastrophe and quarantine efforts. The section closes with first impressions of Levuka’s harbour life—native canoes, reef-lit waters, and the colour and motion of the coral lagoon. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76974,908,'Reading ease score: 58.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76974,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76974,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76974,686);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76975,520,'"The mark of Cain by W. C. Tuttle" is a Western novelette written in the mid-20th century. It centers on a legendary gunman who tries to bring law and decency to a violent railroad boomtown, confronting a ruthless saloon boss and a past identity mystery marked—literally—by the “Mark of Cain.”  The story follows Streak Malone, who accepts the marshal’s badge in Silver Butte and recruits outlaw Mack Shell as his deputy to face Zero Brant, the crooked kingpin behind the Silver Dollar Saloon. Streak kills imported gunfighter Dan Corteen, thwarts a masked shakedown of honest rival Jim Flack’s new Eureka Saloon, and fights through a drunken mob that wrecks the Eureka and sets it ablaze. In the chaos he rescues roulette dealer Clare Ames, who reveals Streak’s true identity as Keith Delmar and that the killer who framed his past bears an M-shaped scar—the “Mark of Cain.” Streak then confronts Brant in the Silver Dollar, recognizes the brand in Brant’s scarred brow, and battles him while knives and dynamite threats swirl. Brant flees, is thrown by Streak’s outlaw horse, and dies, ending his grip on the town. With order restored, Flack inherits the Silver Dollar, young cowboy Joe East reunites with singer Mazie, and Silver Butte turns from terror toward justice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76975,908,'Reading ease score: 87.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76975,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76975,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76975,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76976,520,'The art of courtship by Clement Wood is a practical guidebook on love and relationships written in the early 20th century. It outlines how and why people woo, frames courtship as both instinct and social practice, and argues that mating should be chosen wisely for lasting happiness. The likely topic is advice on selecting a partner, wooing well, and conducting an engagement with maturity and tact.  The book moves from first principles to practice. It traces wooing’s biological roots, weighs reasons for and against marriage, and urges both sexes to treat courtship as education in the opposite sex. It advises how to choose a mate—balancing physical attraction, health, age, temperament, intellect, money, and social background—while warning against “reform” marriages and purely financial matches. It gives concrete guidance for men on making themselves genuinely attractive, communicating, proposing naturally, and continuing courtship after marriage; and for women, it dismisses gimmicky flirtation “codes,” explains how to judge men, encourages tactful initiative (even proposing), and favors being a frank, fully human partner over being merely “nice.” Engagement etiquette covers rings, public behavior, jealousy, and the fraught question of premarital intimacy, with the engagement treated as a test that may wisely end in marriage—or be broken. The closing section samples famous literary courtships and love poetry to inspire better wooing, while underscoring that the art of courtship is ongoing, mutual, and aimed at shared happiness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76976,908,'Reading ease score: 61.5 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76976,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76976,701);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76977,520,'"Little Button Rose by Louisa May Alcott" is a children’s short story from the late 19th century. It centers on a tender, spirited girl who becomes a peacemaker, mending a neighborhood feud through kindness, courage, and tact.  Rosamond—nicknamed Button-Rose—comes to stay with her cousins: gentle Miss Penelope, proud Miss Henrietta, and vain but charming Cicely. Next door lives Mr. Thomas Dover, a widower and former missionary, estranged from the cousins over a petty dispute about a garden gate, hens, and an old summer-house. With fearless warmth, Rosy befriends Mr. Dover (after her cousins’ cat is flung over the wall for killing his chicks), opens a secret “button-hole” gate, ferries cherries and flowers, and gently “missionaries” at home by reading to Miss Penny and winning over Cicely with an amber necklace and a kiss “for a blow.” When Rosy falls ill with scarlet fever, the household unites; Mr. Dover returns, helps guide her through the crisis, and her recovery seals the reconciliation. The story closes with pride and gratitude as the adults finally put aside their stubbornness, their peace earned by the little peacemaker’s love. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76977,908,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76977,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76977,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76977,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76978,520,'The North-Americans of yesterday :  a comparative study of North-American…. by Frederick S. Dellenbaugh is a comparative ethnological study written in the late 19th century. It surveys the lifeways, arts, languages, governments, myths, and material culture of Indigenous peoples across North America, arguing for their ethnic unity while correcting romanticism and crude “stone-age” time scales. Drawing on fieldwork, museum collections, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, it offers a broad, illustrated synthesis for general readers and students of American archaeology and ethnology.  The opening of this study explains its origin in public lectures, acknowledges major scholarly sources, and sets the author’s aim: to present Indigenous North Americans as a coherent, once-vigorous world-race whose cultures varied by environment and history rather than by kind. Dellenbaugh critiques rigid global “Paleolithic/Neolithic” schemes, proposes that pre- or early-glacial land connections and climate shifts drove latitudinal migrations, and sketches a cultural gradient from southern centers (e.g., Yucatec) through Uto-Aztecan, Siouan, Algonquian, Athapascan, to the distinct Eskimo. He contrasts lowland declines with highland florescence (e.g., Nahuatl), notes mountain barriers shaping east–west differences, and argues the glacial era’s effects persisted into recent times. The introductory chapter also repudiates the misnomer “Indian,” adopts “Amerind,” and frankly recounts European brutality while urging objective study beyond stereotype. The next chapter begins a linguistic overview: many stock families and dialects, the persistence of languages (e.g., Tewa at Hano), sign-language and trade jargons like Chinook, the polysynthetic structure (with a Basque analogy), phonetic peculiarities, efforts to standardize transcription, and the notable homogeneity of Eskimo speech. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76978,908,'Reading ease score: 54.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76978,686);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76978,656);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76979,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 74, No. 455, September, 1853" by Various is a literary and political periodical written in the mid-19th century. This issue blends historical and economic analysis, cultural criticism, and serialized fiction, with pieces ranging from Scottish constitutional and fiscal grievances to foreign views of England, alongside Shakespearean notes, a continuing domestic novel, poetry, and religious reflection.  The opening of the issue presents a long essay, “Scotland Since the Union,” which praises historian John Hill Burton’s fairness yet faults his handling of Highland character, then argues that Scotland entered the Union as an equal but was later injured by English commercial restrictions, centralizing administration, and neglect. It recounts the path from the Revolution and Darien scheme through the Act of Security to the 1707 treaty, then details post-Union mismanagement—customs and excise enforcement by outsiders, diversion of Crown revenues (with Holyrood left to decay), underfunded universities and public institutions, and inequities in policing and infrastructure—before urging remedies: a Scottish Secretary of State, stronger representation, and faithful observance of the treaty’s spirit. The issue then turns to “Foreign Estimates of England,” reviewing Max Schlesinger’s lively portraits of London and Parliament staged as dialogues between a steadfast English host, a grumbling Austrian exile, and a Paris-fixated Frenchman; it highlights English ceremonial continuity, contrasts it with continental revolutions, and sketches figures like Lord Palmerston with wry approval before the extract breaks off mid-anecdote. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76979,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackwood%27s_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76979,908,'Reading ease score: 54.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76979,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76980,520,'"Blackwood''s Edinburgh Magazine, Vol. 79, No. 485, March, 1856" by Various is a literary periodical written in the mid-19th century. It gathers wide-ranging essays that review new books, probe classical and modern history, discuss church and state questions, and comment on current affairs. The tone blends scholarship with opinion, moving from rigorous criticism to vivid biographical and social sketches.  The opening of the issue devotes a substantial essay to Dr. Liddell’s History of Rome, contrasting the blood-soaked boasts of ancient conquerors with Rome’s distinctive role in shaping European civilisation. It surveys the shift in Roman studies from heroic narratives to critical debates over myth, tradition, and constitutional reconstruction, weighing Niebuhr’s bold hypotheses against Sir George Cornewall Lewis’s scepticism, and illustrating the value and limits of legend through stories like Coriolanus, Decius, and the Gallic sack. The reviewer praises Liddell’s book as a useful, clear compendium for general readers, then sketches Rome’s republican machinery—short annual magistracies, citizen legions, and above all the Senate’s enduring power—before charting emerging moral decay, the harsh provincial tax-farming of the Publicani, Cato the Censor’s stern crusades, and the corrosive effects of slavery. A second piece turns to Amans Alexis Monteil, recounting his obscure provincial roots, his family’s ordeals in the Revolution, the saintly influence of his mother, the checkered fates of his brothers, and his own dogged archival hunts that fed a pioneering social history of ordinary French lives. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76980,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackwood%27s_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76980,908,'Reading ease score: 46.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76980,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76981,520,'"Saved from Herself; or, On the Edge of Doom" by Adelaide Stirling is a novel written in the late 19th century. It appears to be a romantic-sensation tale that blends crime, blackmail, and social intrigue, following the beautiful but neglected Ismay Trelane and her scheming mother, Helen, as they collide with the le Marchant household and the charismatic Miles Cylmer. A suspicious death, missing diamonds, and a dangerous blackmailer set the tone, while Sir Gaspard le Marchant and his daughter Cristiane provide a refuge that may become a trap.  The opening of the story introduces Ismay, sent home from school to a mother intent on trapping Lord Abbotsford into marriage, and shows Ismay’s impulsive night at a music hall where a handsome stranger protects and feeds her. Soon after, Helen sneaks into Abbotsford’s house with a latch-key at his summons, finds him dead in a rose-colored room, panics, and—at Ismay’s urging—returns only to remove her photograph as Mr. Cylmer briefly enters and later discovers the body. An inquest rules murder by person unknown; the diamonds vanish; and the unscrupulous Marcus Wray, who saw Helen’s comings and goings, extorts the jewels and threatens exposure to gain power over Ismay. Cornered, Helen appeals to her cousin, Sir Gaspard le Marchant—recently told he is dying—who brings Helen and Ismay to his estate as companions for his daughter Cristiane; there, Cylmer (Ismay’s unnamed rescuer) proposes to Cristiane and is rejected, meets Helen with a troubling sense of recognition, and the stage is set for intersecting desires, secrets, and danger. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76981,908,'Reading ease score: 85.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76981,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76981,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76981,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76981,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76982,520,'"Folk tales of Sind and Guzarat" by C. A. Kincaid is a collection of folk stories written in the early 20th century. It gathers legends, saints’ lives, place-lore, and moral tales from Sind and Gujarat, retold in clear, engaging prose. The focus is on the region’s syncretic Hindu–Muslim spirituality, its river-and-desert settings, and the romance of shrines, ruins, and local heroes. It will appeal to readers interested in South Asian folklore and cultural history.  The opening of the book frames the project with a preface noting these pieces first appeared in newspapers, a dedication, a Shah Latif epigraph, and a foreword praising Sind’s landscape, romance, and new archaeological discoveries, before moving into the Sind tales. Kincaid retells the miracles and cult of Lal Shahbaz of Sehwan; the river-born savior Udero Lal who protects Hindus and leaves a shared temple-mosque; Zinda Pir (Al-Khidr/Elijah) as guardian of Indus boatmen; the life of Shah Abdul Latif and the making of Shah jo Risalo; and Makhdum Nuh’s wonders, including realigning Tatta’s great mosque. He then gives origin legends: Hyderabad (Nerankot) through Shah Makai and Haidar Ali; and two contrasting accounts of Brahmanabad’s destruction, both blaming a wicked ruler. The section closes with a fairy-tale, The Eighth Key, where a loyal minister repeatedly saves his king at great cost and is restored, and it begins The Noose of Murad, explaining a ruined fort and a proverb through the rise of a bald grass-cutter favoured by fate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76982,908,'Reading ease score: 76.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76982,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76982,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76983,520,'"Skeeter Bill comes to town by W. C. Tuttle" is a Western novelet written in the mid-20th century. The story centers on a lanky, straight-shooting cowhand who returns to a dusty cattle town and stirs up trouble for the real culprits behind a notorious bank robbery. It blends range feuds, saloon politics, and a clever unraveling of a frame-up.  Skeeter Bill Sarg rides back to Yellow Butte to honor the twelfth birthday of his namesake, the son of his jailed friend Hooty Edwards—convicted for a bank job Skeeter doubts he committed. As Skeeter visits old allies like fiery rancher Fuzzy Davis and his stern wife, strange attacks begin: a dummy he rigs at a fenced spring is riddled at dawn, and later he’s ambushed outside Margie Edwards’ house, where outlaw Dutch Held is secretly shot dead by his own partner. At the packed inquest, Skeeter springs a trap with bold bluff and sharper shooting, exposing a ring led by cattleman Sam Keenan, aided by saloon front man Slim Lacey and deadly foreman Johnny Greer. Lacey confesses to drugging Hooty’s drinks to set him up while Keenan looted the bank and tried to pressure Margie. With the plot laid bare and Keenan finished, Hooty’s name is set to be cleared, Margie is granted the Tumbling K, and Skeeter quietly seals it all with a simple gift: “Happy Birthday” to the boy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76983,908,'Reading ease score: 86.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76983,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76983,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76983,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76983,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76984,520,'"Rocky Fork" by Mary Hartwell Catherwood is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set among the hills and hollows of central Ohio, it follows spirited Melissa “Bluebell” Garde as she navigates schooldays, community customs, and the dangers and delights of a rural settlement with her little sister Rocco, their physician father, and visiting Aunt Melissa. Expect tender domestic moments, lively classroom scenes, industrial backdrops, and occasional frontier hazards, all filtered through a child’s keen eye.  The opening of the novel follows Bluebell on her path to the log schoolhouse under kindly Mr. Pitzer, where a polished outsider, Mr. Runnels, sweeps in to launch a “geography school” with map-chanting that captivates the district. After a noon of trading treats and games, Bluebell rides with her father to the chapel meeting; the night turns urgent when a furnace worker is injured, and the pair brave the perilous Narrows on their sure-footed mare, Ballie. Next day a refined relative, Miss Melissa Calder, arrives with gifts (including a wax doll that briefly stirs Rocco’s jealousy), then visits the school, offers remarks, and joins the girls’ swing at noon. The section closes on a simmering quarrel over a prized thumb-paper and a heated spelling match as a storm gathers, sketching the community’s rhythms, childhood rivalries, and the mix of learning and danger that shape Bluebell’s world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76984,908,'Reading ease score: 76.6 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76984,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76984,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76985,520,'"Sally in her fur coat" by Eliza Orne White is a children’s novel written in the early 20th century. The story follows orphaned twin kittens—sensitive, quick Sally and her confident brother Oxford Gray, Junior—as they find a home with kind humans and navigate small adventures indoors and out. Warm, humorous, and sprinkled with verse, it lingers on everyday wonders, friendship, and the comforts (and challenges) of domestic cat life.  The opening of the story introduces the kittens’ plight and their rescue: after wandering hungry, they are spotted by a neighbor, brought to the gray house on the hill, and gently taken in by Elvira, Miss Harvey, and the initially reluctant Miss Winifred. Settling into their new home, they cause mishaps (a toppled candlestick, an alarming clock chime), receive treasured catnip mice, and witness a first snowstorm from cozy windows. A stray rival, Peter, spars with Oxford and later slips indoors during a blizzard, while a new marvel—the radio “loud speaker”—arrives to fascinate Sally. At New Year’s Sally resolves to “brace up” and catch a mouse; she finally does, only for Oxford to bat it away at the last moment. These early chapters paint a gentle, episodic portrait of kittenhood—household routines, seasonal changes, small triumphs and stumbles—culminating in the fresh tension of a neighbor’s dog named Spot. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76985,908,'Reading ease score: 81.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76985,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76985,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76985,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76986,520,'"Sämtliche Werke 22: Ein kleiner Held : Vier Novellen" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky is a collection of novellas written in the mid-to-late 19th century. The volume gathers stories bound by themes of childhood and early emotional awakenings within adult social worlds. In the first novella, an almost eleven-year-old boy visiting a lavish country estate near Moscow is drawn into the games, rivalries, and hidden tensions of the grown-ups, especially a mischievous blonde beauty, the reserved and sorrowful Mme M., and her vain, controlling husband.  The opening of the collection follows the boy’s arrival amid endless parties and entertainments, where he is teased publicly by the flirtatious blonde and quietly captivated by the gentle, melancholy Mme M. He witnesses her unease around her husband and senses a secret sorrow, while a passing cavalcade hints at unspoken ties. At a lunch-table skirmish the blonde makes him the butt of a joke about his supposed infatuation, driving him to tears and retreat—only for him soon after to seize a reckless chance at redemption by mounting a notorious, unbroken horse and surviving the wild ride. His courage wins sudden admiration, elicits a telling exchange of glances with Mme M., and transforms the blonde’s mockery into protective warmth. A rainy village outing follows; Mme M. lends him her scarf, the blonde tends him like a friend, and the section closes with the boy waking joyful the next morning and slipping into the woods, his feelings newly awakened. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76986,908,'Reading ease score: 74.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76986,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76986,650);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76986,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76987,520,'"Spar-torpedo instructions for the United States Navy" is a naval manual written in the late 19th century. It explains how to equip, handle, fire, and maintain spar-torpedoes from ships and boats, with emphasis on electrical firing gear, gun-cotton safety, and standardized Navy fittings.  The opening of the manual defines the Class D spar-torpedo outfit and distinguishes service, exercise, and contact torpedoes, describing their cases, stuffing-boxes, circuit-closers, spars, fittings, and cabling. It then lays out step-by-step procedures for priming with dry gun-cotton, testing detonators, splicing and fuzing, shipping torpedoes on secondary spars, and conducting circuit tests and firings from ships and boats, including immersion and stand-off distances; it also covers converting a service torpedo to contact firing and outlines improvised powder torpedoes. Subsequent sections summarize the firing batteries, battery tester, hand-firing key, testing magneto, and Farmer dynamo machines (A and C), with clear testing and operating routines, wire insulation practices, and splicing methods. The portion concludes with thorough guidance on packing, stowage, inspection schedules, and drying methods for wet and dry gun-cotton and detonators, followed by an appendix of inspector duties, outfit inventories, and stowage weights and spaces. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76987,908,'Reading ease score: 62.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76987,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76987,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76987,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76988,520,'"Aeolus; or, the future of the flying machine" by Major Oliver Stewart is an aeronautical essay written in the early 20th century. It forecasts how aircraft will evolve and be used, arguing that society’s attitude and policy toward aviation will shape progress more than pure technology. Stewart champions moving‑wing craft (notably the autogiro) for short urban hops and poor visibility, foresees giant flying boats as true long‑range air liners, and criticizes official and financial constraints while doubting the long‑term viability of rigid airships.  The opening of this work casts the aeroplane as an “aerial sailing‑ship,” clarifies basic terms (wing, airscrew, propeller), and sets a pragmatic forecasting stance. Stewart then argues that Britain’s aviation stagnation springs from overregulation and financier‑led standardization, prescribing “freedom of the air” and craftsmanship to unlock progress. He contrasts a noisy, awkward passenger plane with the effortless gull to introduce the key idea of moving‑wing flight, presenting the autogiro as the first practical realization and predicting spot landings, rooftop terminals, and fog‑defying city‑center services. He anticipates a counter from fixed‑wing operators—very fast, highly loaded machines aided by catapults, arresters, and high‑speed ground links—and begins to sketch the longer‑range future in which immense hydro‑aeroplanes become the true air liners. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76988,908,'Reading ease score: 55.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76988,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76988,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76989,520,'"Aspects of science" by J. W. N. Sullivan is a collection of essays on science written in the early 20th century. Framed from a humanistic and aesthetic point of view, it explores how scientific ideas emerge, evolve, and influence culture while clarifying methods, theories, and assumptions for the general reader. Expect reflective critiques of how science is pursued, taught, and popularized, alongside portraits of scientific minds and the philosophical implications of modern physics.  The opening of this collection sets out the premise that scientific ideas have histories and serve human needs, arguing that theories confer order, practical power, and aesthetic satisfaction even while remaining provisional. It explains scientific method as a selective, law-building enterprise whose “truth” rests on shared judgment but whose “meaning” is personal and artistic, citing the physicist’s perspective (via Norman Campbell) and the growing gap between specialists and the public as language grows technical. Through cultural reflections and a striking portrait of Maxwell, the essays show science as intuitive and imaginative—sometimes mystical—yet disciplined. A sequence on assumptions dismantles inherited certainties (circular planetary orbits, naïve probability, Euclidean space and time, the elastic æther, and anthropomorphic readings of animals), showing how reasonableness shifts with evidence. Pieces on learning and popularizing science urge historical teaching and reading original memoirs, and critique both suave synthesizers of science with philosophy and religion and marvel-mongering “popular” accounts. Overall, the start maps science’s aims, methods, and misreadings while inviting non-specialists into its human context. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76989,908,'Reading ease score: 43.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76989,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76989,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76989,667);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76990,520,'"Last letters from the living dead man" by David Patterson Hatch is a collection of spiritualist letters and metaphysical essays written in the early 20th century. Framed as messages dictated through Elsa Barker’s automatic writing, it offers posthumous guidance on America’s moral destiny during and after the Great War, blending occult insight with practical civic counsel. The focus is on courage, unity, ethical reform, and the shaping influence of unseen worlds on national life.  The opening of this work begins with Barker’s candid introduction: she recounts how the letters were “written down” during 1917–1918, her earlier volumes, her reluctance to continue automatic writing, and her turn to analytical psychology (especially Jung) while affirming a deep, experiential belief in immortality and the practical value of prayer and mysticism. The first letters from “X” invoke the “Genius of America,” urging fearlessness, service, and national unity amid wartime upheaval, and foretelling great change akin to winter giving way to spring. He warns that America suffers from an “indigestion of gold,” presses for rebuilding Europe, shipbuilding, fair lending, government stewardship of key utilities and food, and steady work to prevent panic and hysteria, while cautioning about a coming surge in psychic sensitivity and the need for restraint. Further letters advise honest dealing at home, level heads in turbulent politics, simple methods to calm fear, and describe “invisible armies” aiding from beyond; they also stress America’s role in spiritual culture, discuss reincarnated Native souls within the population, and narrate a forest encounter with an indigenous chieftain that reframes vengeance into future brotherhood—before returning to the central theme that a nation’s ideals, like individuals’, determine its fate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76990,908,'Reading ease score: 68.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76990,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76990,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76990,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76991,520,'"Episodes before thirty" by Algernon Blackwood is a memoir written in the early 20th century. It traces the author’s formative years through hardship, wanderlust, and spiritual seeking, from failed ventures in Canada and moral conflict over running a Toronto saloon to poverty and fear in New York, set against an evangelical upbringing and a growing devotion to Nature and Eastern thought.  The opening of the memoir recalls a stifling New York boarding-house where the young narrator endures vermin, hunger, and the menace of a petty forger roommate, cooks dried apples over gas jets, and sometimes sleeps on benches in Central Park. He then backtracks to his Canadian years: modest work at a Methodist magazine under kindly Dr. Withrow (who recoils when he admits he is a Buddhist), an ill-starred partnership in a Jersey dairy that collapses, and a second gamble—buying the disreputable Hub Hotel with his friend John Kay—despite a conscience formed by teetotal, evangelical parents. A flashy opening day at the saloon yields to decline, pilfering staff, and financial loss, even as he learns barroom tactics from Billy Bingham and wrestles with shame. Threaded through are vivid memories of evangelical childhood, Moravian schooling, early encounters with Patanjali, theosophy, and hypnotism, the guidance of a Hindu student, and, above all, nights alone in woods and by the lake whose rapture and calm teach detachment and help him endure. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76991,908,'Reading ease score: 67.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76991,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76991,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76992,520,'"Ennustus :  Yksinäytöksinen huvinäytelmä by Kaarle Halme" is a one-act comedic play written in the early 20th century. Set in a rural farmhouse, it playfully explores matchmaking, pride, and romantic competition when several suitors converge on a widowed mistress, and a cheeky “prophecy” turns a household mishap into fate.  The play unfolds in Kontusalo’s main room on a summer day. Ruura, the vain but kind widow, prepares to receive suitors; the slow, witty farmhand Josua pines for her while the lively maid Aili teases him. Neighbor Eenokki, a dithering suitor, arrives first; soon come the brisk Ville Virkki and a jovial matchmaker, with Ville quickly flirting with Aili instead of Ruura. A comic motif — a washtub Josua built too large to fit through the door — lets the matchmaker “foretell” that its maker will never need to leave the house. After Ville effectively chooses Aili and Eenokki loses his nerve, Ruura feels humiliated, only to be comforted by Josua, who declares his steady devotion. She accepts him, the “prophecy” is fulfilled, and the pair seal their engagement amid lighthearted congratulations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76992,908,'Reading ease score: 59.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76992,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76992,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76992,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76993,520,'"An independent daughter" by Amy Ella Blanchard is a novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on Persis Holmes, a warm, capable college graduate who aims to live independently—balancing study, work, travel, and duty—while moving through friendships, family ties, and early romances. The tone is domestic and social, with lively scenes, humor, and a thoughtful tug-of-war between home-making and modern aspirations.  The opening of An independent daughter follows Persis through her final college days: teasing dorm antics, a pact with friends Patty and Nettie to be “The Cheerful Three,” a prank with a pillow manikin, and a moonlit serenade answered by candy lowered from a window. A lively cooking-club supper shows the book’s blend of fun and competence, as Patty’s bread wins a prize and Mr. Danforth, a steady family friend, quietly impresses. Class Day brings Persis’s graduation, flowers from Mr. Dan and Basil Phillips, and a conversation with an admiral that frames the story’s theme—independence versus traditional home life. Lisa’s elegant June wedding follows, with Persis’s mixed joy and sadness, hints of suitors in the circle, and the first real friction with younger sister Mellicent, whose vanity and defensiveness trouble the family. After a quarrel, Persis seeks her grandmother’s counsel and secretly arranges a Narragansett trip for Mellicent and Grandma, while accepting Aunt Esther’s invitation for her own summer journey. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76993,908,'Reading ease score: 81.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76993,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76993,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76994,520,'"Neesby Court :  or, Our pretty cousin by Ethel S. Cann" is a children’s domestic novel with Christian moral themes, written in the Victorian era. Set in a provincial English town, it follows family life, friendship, illness, loss, and reconciliation, highlighting faith and kindness amid everyday adventures.  Told by lively eleven-year-old Addie Dixon, the story begins with the arrival of stately Miss Esther Townley and her pretty niece Eleanor at Neesby Court. Addie’s family befriends Eleanor despite her aunt’s reserve, and between picnics, a boisterous birthday party, and small household dramas (including a prank involving their dog Tuts), affection grows. A scarlet fever outbreak transforms play into crisis: Milly falls ill, then little Maud, and Eleanor becomes dangerously weak. In the midst of this, Addie learns that Miss Townley is her mother’s estranged sister, and her gentle pleading brings the sisters together at Eleanor’s bedside. Eleanor’s peaceful death and last message spur Addie’s heartfelt turn to personal faith, while Maud and Milly recover and the family heals. Aunt Esther, chastened and loving, draws Addie close, takes her abroad, and later leaves the Court when new owners return; an epilogue sketches the family’s futures, the kindness of Sir Guy and his bride, and a fond farewell to brave little Tuts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76994,908,'Reading ease score: 83.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76994,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76994,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76994,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76995,520,'"Law-star for an outlaw by W. C. Tuttle" is a Western crime novelette written in the mid-20th century. The story centers on Irish Delaney, a hard-riding cowhand who returns to Dancing Flats to clear his uncle’s name and take on a secret vigilante outfit known as the Night Hawks.  Irish finds his uncle Hank Farley posthumously framed as the infamous Ghost Rider, while the Night Hawks terrorize locals with threats and “justice” notes. After a robbery and the murder of Al Briggs put suspicion on him, Irish survives an ambush, escapes a kidnapping to the abandoned Lost Goose mine, and prevents a booby-trap from killing the sheriff and deputy. Tracking leads—and the scent on a forged decoy letter—bring him to a showdown at the old 74 ranch, where Buck French is wounded and the revered minister is unmasked as an ex-forger named Strickland, the real Ghost Rider and mastermind of the Night Hawks; the stolen money lies hidden under the church. With the plot exposed and order restored, Irish quietly reveals he’s now a Deputy U.S. Marshal with a family, having returned not for glory but to see justice done. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76995,908,'Reading ease score: 86.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76995,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76995,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76995,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76995,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76996,520,'"The poems of Edgar Allan Poe" by Edgar Allan Poe is a collection of poems written in the mid-19th century. It assembles his celebrated lyrics alongside earlier pieces and a few prose reflections on poetics, with themes centered on love, loss, beauty, death, and hypnotic sound. Readers can expect atmospheric ballads and elegies in which speakers are haunted by idealized, often lost women, and by dreamlike or macabre visions.  The opening of the volume presents publisher material and a detailed contents list, followed by a substantial introduction that defends Poe’s character, sketches his hard-pressed life and career, and explains his craft—his emphasis on melody, refrain, brevity, and the non-didactic “poetic principle”—while reassessing “The Raven” among his other lyrics. It then reprints Poe’s modest 1845 preface and his dedication to Elizabeth Barrett Barrett. After this, the collection launches into signature poems—“The Raven,” “The Bells,” “Ulalume,” “Lenore,” “Annabel Lee,” and others—that stage grief, longing, and the supernatural through rich sound patterns and refrains, before moving into pieces like “The City in the Sea,” “The Conqueror Worm,” and “The Haunted Palace,” which deepen the gothic mood. The section closes by turning to poems written in youth, where early romantic yearning, classical invocations, and nocturnal imagery already show the seeds of his later voice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76996,908,'Reading ease score: 62.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76996,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76996,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76996,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76997,520,'"Wigwam wonder tales by William Thompson" is a collection of short folk tales written in the early 20th century. Rooted in northern Indigenous settings of forests, rivers, and lakes, it offers animal fables and wonder stories that double as origin myths, exploring humility, generosity, loyalty, vanity, and the living spirit of nature.  Across its tales, people, animals, and spirits meet and change each other: Ayas snares the sun until a winged mouse frees it; Wactu paints the birds and bequeaths vanity to the peacock; a beaver elder escapes giant raptors, explaining flightless birds; the vain Niona is whisked to the moon and returns committed to service; a shaman’s decree silences dogs but preserves their fidelity; an old widower rides a giant fish to the Fire of Youth; elemental Fire and Water Boys tend an isolated woman; a kindly spider shelters wingless Cupids; visitors discover an underwater village of strange transformations; and a taciturn wanderer tricks a city of birds to their doom. Together the stories blend adventure, gentle humor, and moral insight to explain the ways of animals and the world. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76997,908,'Reading ease score: 78.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76997,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76997,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76997,636);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58687,'en.wikipedia','https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_V._Thompson');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76998,520,'"Jonah" by Robert Nathan is a novel written in the early 20th century. It reimagines the biblical prophet as a gentle, idealistic young man whose desert-born faith collides with worldly priests, nobles, and a sudden love for a noblewoman. Blending fable, satire, and romance—complete with talking creatures and angels—it explores the tensions between prophecy and pragmatism, poverty and power, and the human longing for beauty and certainty.  The opening of the novel places Jonah among Israel’s desert prophets, where an angel sends him to Bethel to promise victory over Hamath; the High Priest Amaziah deftly turns this into a war that Israel wins. Returning to his village, Jonah is welcomed by his practical mother Deborah, spars with his ambitious brother Aaron, and is counseled by his old teacher Naaman to keep to the desert. In Prince Ahab’s household, his niece Judith—curious, sheltered, and impressionable—meets Jonah; their conversations about angels and the desert ripen into a tender love, sealed at a moonlit village feast. When Deborah and Uncle David ask Ahab for Judith’s hand, the prince scorns the poor prophet’s suit for lacking a bride price and status. Judith briefly mourns under the watch of her calculating nurse, Sarah, while Jonah, seeking a viable path to marriage, asks Amaziah to make him a priest. The High Priest cautions that marriage would squander Jonah’s rare calling, and the scene closes with his grave challenge to the prophet. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76998,908,'Reading ease score: 82.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76998,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76998,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76998,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76998,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76999,520,'"Freston Tower :  A tale of the times of Cardinal Wolsey" by Richard Cobbold is a historical novel written in the mid-19th century. Centered on the Suffolk landmark of Freston Tower and the early life of Thomas Wolsey, it blends local history with a moral meditation on ambition, learning, and piety. The narrative follows young Wolsey, his patrons Lord De Freston and the gifted Ellen De Freston, and the Oxford scholar William Latimer, as scholarship, friendship, and nascent reformist ideas intersect along the River Orwell.  The opening of the work presents Wolsey as a brilliant, ambitious youth reading Homer on the Orwell’s shore, then welcomed to De Freston’s castle to meet Latimer and Ellen. Latimer unveils the plan of Freston Tower—six ascending rooms dedicated to charity, needlework, music, painting, literature, and astronomy—to shape Ellen’s studies, and the trio share vigorous talk on books, politics, and religion amid unease with Richard III and growing interest in scriptural truth. Scenes in the baron’s hall show the household’s order and the retainers’ speculation about Ellen’s suitors, while a river excursion to Ipswich features a poignant episode of a mother dolphin following her wounded young, which deeply moves Ellen. The party lands at St. Peter’s Priory, leaves the boatmen with hospitable monks, and proceeds toward Edmund Daundy’s house, their purpose plainly to secure support and permission for Wolsey’s hoped‑for return to Oxford. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (76999,908,'Reading ease score: 62.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76999,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (76999,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77000,520,'"China collecting in America" by Alice Morse Earle is a historical account written in the late 19th century. It explores the passion, practice, and history of seeking old china and related tableware in the United States, especially New England, blending personal memoir with antiquarian research. The work likely appeals to collectors and readers of material culture, moving from anecdotes of “china hunting” into guidance, ethics, and the evolution of tableware from wood and pewter to Delft, English wares, and Oriental porcelain.  The opening of the book recounts the author’s “midsummer madness” for hunting old china across New England, detailing the thrills, frequent disappointments, and crafty etiquette of buying from wary farm households. Vivid anecdotes include failed negotiations (a Nankin bowl used for mixing chicken-dough), misidentified “Martha Washington” plates, evasive hoarders, and the colorful stratagems of dealers—alongside a playful fantasy of collecting from a tin-peddler’s cart. The narrative weighs the ethics of the chase, from gentle persuasion to dubious ruses and even brushes with stolen goods, and sketches the social settings of auctions, schoolhouse intelligence-gathering, and unglamorous roadside meals. The next section turns to history, surveying wooden trenchers and pewter—porringers, platters, candlesticks, and communion services—their manufacture, household pride, and preservation, illustrated by a Shrewsbury homestead laden with shining pewter. The account then begins tracing early American porcelain use and importation: English misconceptions about china, Delft and stoneware appearances in colonial inventories, the silver-mounted Winthrop jug, Boston’s early 18th‑century advertisements for “chayney,” and regional contrasts showing New England’s lead. It closes this opening stretch with the culture of repairing cherished pieces and a glimpse of Franklin sending select English and Oriental wares home to Philadelphia. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77000,908,'Reading ease score: 58.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77000,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77000,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77001,520,'"Moon of madness" by Sax Rohmer is a novel written in the early 20th century. It blends romantic adventure with espionage, following narrator George Decies as he’s drawn into Major Edmond O’Shea’s covert mission to stop Communist agents from smuggling documents that could imperil a royal figure. Set chiefly in sun-drenched Madeira, it centers on wilful debutante Nanette, her earnest suitor Jack Kelton, the enigmatic O’Shea, and the predatory Gabriel da Cunha. Expect flirtation, danger, and a cat‑and‑mouse pursuit that turns a holiday idyll into high-stakes intrigue.  The opening of the novel introduces the party at Reid’s Hotel in Funchal, where Nanette’s reckless charm and Jack’s devotion collide with the arrival of O’Shea and the sinister da Cunha. After Nanette’s near-scandalous escapades and a tense night at the casino, O’Shea reveals his mission: recover a black dispatch-box tied to a royal scandal, now in da Cunha’s orbit. When Nanette secretly meets da Cunha at his hill bungalow, Jack and Decies—led by O’Shea—race up a goat track; Jack is felled in a brutal fight, O’Shea drops da Cunha and seizes the box. O’Shea then departs, breaking Nanette’s heart with a calculated “goodbye,” but returns covertly when it’s learned the letters were photographed; with Macalister acting for da Cunha, Nanette boldly outswims pursuit at a moonlit harbour to snatch the portfolio from a motor cruiser and deliver it to O’Shea, setting the stage for further danger as the Reds try again. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77001,908,'Reading ease score: 76.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77001,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77001,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77001,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77001,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77002,520,'"Tiervater Brehm :  Seine Forschungsreisen : Ein Gedenkblatt zum 100. Geburtstag." by Dr. Kurt Floericke is a biographical account written in the early 20th century. It commemorates the life and journeys of the naturalist Alfred Edmund Brehm, highlighting his African and European expeditions, his vivid field observations, and his role in popularizing zoology through works like the Illustrated Animal Life. The focus is on travel, adventure, and scientific discovery, woven with character sketches and cultural encounters.  The opening of this volume first sketches Brehm’s background: his upbringing under the famed ornithologist Christian Ludwig Brehm, early talent, decisive Sudan expedition with Baron von Müller, later studies, travels, and authorship. A vivid scene in the Renthendorf parsonage shows Müller recruiting the young Brehm amid a technical debate on wagtail subspecies, leading to his departure for Africa. The narrative then follows Nile voyages with scrapes and misunderstandings, a near-fatal crocodile episode, and the dramatic, first-ever European passage of the Wadi Halfa cataracts. Hardships in Kordofan—malaria, thirst, hostile misreadings, and the searing Samum—contrast with rich natural-history observing, oases life, and a homesick Christmas night punctuated by wild elephants’ trumpeting. Brief solo forays bring illness and tension with Müller over collecting results. In Cairo and Khartum, the story moves through sunstroke, an earthquake, sharp portraits of Bedouin virtue, and a makeshift menagerie—centered on Brehm’s tame lioness Bachida—whose antics with a baboon and a formidable marabou reveal both humor and the habits of animals in captivity. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77002,908,'Reading ease score: 62.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77002,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77002,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77002,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77003,520,'"With the Indians in France" by Sir James Willcocks is a firsthand military memoir written in the early 20th century. It presents the Indian Army Corps’ experience on the Western Front, stressing their loyalty, endurance, and the realities of fighting in France and Belgium alongside British and French troops. From a commander’s viewpoint, it addresses battlefield performance, cultural and logistical challenges, and the interplay between Indian units and their British officers. It will appeal to readers of World War I history and those curious about imperial forces in modern warfare.  The opening of the book moves from a ballad of a Sikh veteran, Hurnam Singh, celebrating Indian courage from Messines to Neuve Chapelle, into an introduction that defines the scope: not a grand history of the front, but an insider’s account of the Indian Corps. Willcocks explains his sources and aims, defends his men against ill‑informed criticism, and bluntly diagnoses systemic weaknesses—shortages of equipment, a flawed reserve system, too few British officers, and parsimony in India—while praising the quality of British gunners, Indian sappers, and the devotion of Indian ranks. He sketches influential figures (Roberts, Kitchener, Minto, Hardinge, Roos‑Keppel) and recounts assembling the Lahore and Meerut Divisions, the welcome in Marseilles, the logistical scramble at Orléans, and the swift move to Flanders. He highlights smooth cooperation with the French and then describes the Corps’ baptism of fire near Ypres, where battalions were split up and thrown in piecemeal. Early actions by the Connaught Rangers, the 57th (Wilde’s) Rifles, and the 129th Baluchis show confusion, heavy losses of British officers, and striking acts of bravery, culminating in the machine‑gun stand that led to Sepoy Khudadad Khan’s Victoria Cross. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77003,908,'Reading ease score: 64.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77003,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77003,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77003,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77003,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77004,520,'"The story of the sun, moon, and stars" by Agnes Giberne is a popular astronomy primer written in the late 19th century. It introduces beginners to the solar system and the wider universe, explaining the sun, moon, planets, comets, and stars in clear, non-mathematical language. Blending scientific facts, historical notes, and vivid description, it aims to make contemporary astronomy understandable and engaging for general readers.  The opening of the book begins with an admiring introduction by Charles Pritchard praising its simplicity and accuracy for beginners, followed by a contents list that promises a full tour from the solar system to modern methods. It then sets Earth in its true place as one planet among many, distinguishes stars (suns) from planets (worlds reflecting sunlight), and explains Earth’s motions, apparent celestial movements, vast stellar distances, and the zodiac. Next come the sun’s distance and scale, rotation and sun-spots, faculæ, prominences, and corona, with striking imagery of solar storms; a clear account of gravitation and inertia shows how orbits work, and a neat candle-and-orange model illustrates day/night and the seasons via Earth’s tilted axis. The narrative surveys the planetary family: Mercury through Mars, the asteroid belt, then Jupiter (with four large moons and rapid spin), Saturn (with rings and many moons), Uranus, and Neptune, supported by memorable size-and-distance analogies. A vivid “visit” to the moon portrays airless skies, extreme heat and cold, stark light and shadow, cratered landscapes, and Earth shining motionless in the lunar sky, before turning to comets—their once-feared appearances, ethereal nature, varied orbits, behavior near the sun, and famous examples like Halley and Encke—where the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77004,908,'Reading ease score: 61.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77004,667);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77005,520,'"Monthly supplement of the penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of…" is a general-interest periodical supplement produced in the early 19th century. It gathers short articles, reviews, and reports on architecture, engineering, public health, social conditions, and cultural notices, all aimed at spreading practical, “useful” knowledge to a broad readership.  This issue surveys new public works and current ideas alongside literary and biographical pieces. It opens with a detailed architectural account of the new Hungerford Market—its riverside fish-market, vast central hall with galleries, careful lighting and ventilation, and exact measurements—followed by a critique of The Village Poor-House that disputes its sweeping picture of rural misery and urges self-improvement over class resentment. A substantial review of C. Turner Thackrah’s study on occupations and health examines hazards from Sheffield grinding and filing to the indoor deprivations of shopkeepers, the anxieties of merchants, and the ennui of the idle, concluding with practical remedies—temperance, cleanliness, fresh air, exercise, cheerful recreation, and employer responsibility. Short notices describe the repurposed George IV’s Gate at Hyde Park Corner and present an extensive tour of the Liverpool docks, explaining wet, dry, and graving docks, their rapid expansion, facilities, and maintenance. The memoir of Felix Neff portrays a tireless Alpine pastor who combined religious teaching with practical reforms—chimneys, windows, irrigation, improved husbandry, schools, and winter teacher-training—using vivid, makeshift lessons in grammar, geography, and astronomy before his early death. The supplement closes with a note on a bronze statue of Major Cartwright and brief information on the magazine’s circulation and pricing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77005,908,'Reading ease score: 49.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77005,699);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77005,674);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77005,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77005,681);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77006,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is a popular-education periodical written in the early 19th century. It offers illustrated articles across history, language, economics, natural history, and literature, aiming to make “useful knowledge” accessible to general readers.  This issue ranges widely: a richly detailed tour of Warwick Castle links its architecture (Cæsar’s Tower, Guy’s Tower) to feudal power and the execution of Piers Gaveston; a plain-language essay on the meanings of words champions Saxon English over Latinized diction for clarity; a piece on trade argues that buying foreign goods benefits consumers and does not reduce national employment; a major natural-history article reconstructs the megatherium’s skeleton, teeth, limbs, and probable herbivorous, digging habits; “The Week” marks John Dryden’s birth with a crisp appraisal of his career and style; “The Library” recommends Aikin’s compact anthology of British poetry; a historical note challenges popular tales of Richard II’s murder, favoring contemporary evidence for self-starvation; brief curiosities describe “crow-courts,” the banyan tree’s living pillars, and the Brazilian tale of Caramuru (Diego Alvarez); and short maxims and notices round out a concise, instructive miscellany. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77006,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77006,908,'Reading ease score: 48.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77006,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77007,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is a general-interest illustrated periodical written in the early 19th century. It presents short, accessible pieces on natural history, language, education, history, and notable lives, designed to inform and uplift a broad readership with practical knowledge and moral reflection.  This issue ranges widely: it opens with a graceful natural history essay on the olive tree—its form, cultivation, oil-making, and symbolic place in ancient myth and the Bible. It follows with guidance on maternal education that stresses leading by example, and a lively language lesson explaining English noun endings such as -er, -or, -ess, -ship, -dom, -ness, and -y. A correspondent recounts observing a giraffe in Malta and recalling a cherished one in Constantinople; a reflective poem sketches a shepherd boy and contrasts rustic ignorance with urban complacency. There are practical and historical pieces, including a richly detailed history and description of Holyrood House, an anecdote about a “firemen’s dog” that attends blazes across London, and an essay on Chaucer’s House of Fame highlighting medieval ideas about sound and early hints of gunpowder, with a nod to Pope’s adaptation. The weekly feature profiles Admiral Blake as a model naval hero, and brief notes advocate general education for workers and quantify the trade in imported bristles. Throughout, the tone blends instruction, curiosity, and moral purpose, supported by illustrative engravings. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77007,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77007,908,'Reading ease score: 57.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77007,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77008,520,'"The penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, issue…" is an illustrated popular-education periodical produced in the early 19th century. It offers a miscellany of short, accessible pieces designed to spread practical and cultural knowledge, likely spanning geography, language, art, history, natural science, and social conditions.  This issue ranges widely: it opens with a vivid, topographical portrait of Constantinople—its hills, harbours, walls, and vistas—then gives a compact lesson on English word endings. It includes a reflective poem on mortality, brisk anecdotes, and an in-depth report on seasonal migrant labor in Italy’s Maremma, highlighting harsh working conditions and malaria. Art criticism discusses Leonardo da Vinci’s Christ disputing with the Doctors and Correggio’s works in the National Gallery. A striking ethnographic vignette recounts Tonga islanders’ astonishment at the power of writing, while a natural-history note explains how large-headed quadrupeds support their skulls, using the elephant’s trunk as a feeding adaptation. Legal and cultural snippets examine witchcraft statutes, quack advertisements, organ “improvements,” and witty asides, and it closes with notes on ancient painting practices from Pompeii and brief moral anecdotes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77008,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Penny_Magazine',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77008,908,'Reading ease score: 54.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77008,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77009,520,'"Ihmisten kapina : Kolminäytöksinen draama" by Lauri Haarla is a three-act play written in the early 20th century. Set in a futuristic third millennium, it dramatizes a clash between a world-dominating trust magnate, Huggs, and his idealistic son Robert, with workers, politicians, and adventurers drawn into a struggle over monopoly, justice, and human dignity. Key figures include the ruthless heir Ernst, the fragile Gertrud, the lively Graciosa, and the engineer Straum. The play explores how private power, statecraft, and family loyalties collide when an empire seeks to control the globe.  The opening of the play presents Huggs in his fortress-like office, worshipping a private shrine as he rules markets and governments, while his wife Bertha pleads for their troubled son Ernst and news arrives that Robert is returning with a captured Union (Uniooni) air fleet. Huggs flaunts his dominance over ministers and a president seeking rescue, mocks a would-be royal claimant, and prepares to hand his system to Robert. When Robert arrives with Graciosa, he confronts Huggs over brutal labor policies and vows either reconciliation with the Union or open struggle; Huggs counters with a cold plan to starve Europe to win, demanding Robert’s submission before a sacred portrait, which Ernst desecrates, shattering the moment. The second act shifts to a Union shipyard where Ernst’s “Catiline’s boys” plot sabotage, Gertrud warns Straum of danger, and Robert urges workers to reject Huggs’s rich bribes and choose a peaceful, coordinated strike to stop his final monopoly; the workers agree just as Huggs appears to accuse Robert and Straum of deceiving them, claiming Europe’s fate is already sealed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77009,908,'Reading ease score: 45.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77009,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77009,638);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77010,520,'"A second day in Mary Carrow''s school by Anonymous" is a children’s Sunday-school tale written in the mid-19th century. It depicts a gentle, instructive day in a small classroom, weaving simple academics with moral guidance and Christian devotion. The likely topic is a rainy-day school session in which a kind teacher blends grammar, arithmetic, stories, and Scripture to nurture obedience, gratitude, and kindness.  On a wet morning, Mary Carrow welcomes her pupils—Charles, Harry and Lucy Linn, Lily and Eddy Forester, Susan Field, Ellen Raby, and the tardy Carry Deacon, who has been delayed by stopping to admire kittens and arrives soaked. Mary comforts and equips Carry with dry shoes, then teaches nouns, leads blackboard shapes and multiplication in concert, and oversees indoor games at recess. Carry privately confesses her missteps; Mary counsels her about thoughtfulness, gives a short prayer for forgiveness, and encourages better habits. The class shares a simple communal dinner (with much delight over small pies) and observes a quiet moment of gratitude. In the afternoon they recite definitions, answer basic questions about the senses, practice writing, and hear a true story about a kind muffin-man who aids a poor sailor’s family. The day ends with reading from Genesis about Creation and Eden, a brief talk on obedience and God’s love, and a careful dismissal as Mary returns borrowed items and sends the children home in improving weather. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77010,908,'Reading ease score: 81.8 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77010,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77010,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77010,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77011,520,'"The organisation of thought, educational and scientific" by Alfred North Whitehead is a collection of essays on education and the philosophy of science written in the early 20th century. It advocates a living, integrated approach to learning that unites theory with practice, rejects “inert ideas,” and reshapes curricula—especially mathematics and technical training—to cultivate judgment, creativity, and style. The volume likely moves from classroom reform and the social purpose of technical education to broader reflections on scientific concepts and how thought is organized.  The opening of this volume sets its scope in a preface—first essays on education, then pieces on the philosophy of science—before launching, amid wartime urgency, a plea for reform. Chapter I lays down two rules (teach few subjects, teach them thoroughly), attacks inert information, argues that proof and use must go together, criticizes uniform external examinations, and defines education as cultivating culture, expertise, and “style,” closing with duty and reverence as its moral core. Chapter II reframes technical education as inherently liberal, insisting that joy in work, moral vision, and art power skilled labor, invention, and enterprise, and that manual craft, science, and literature must interpenetrate. It sketches three intertwined curricula (literary, scientific, technical), stresses hand–eye practice, proposes broad, non-narrow training linked to appropriate sciences, and treats literature as enjoyment rather than grammar. Chapter III, a prize-day address, praises perseverance in wartime, calls students to public service, and urges the Polytechnic to be a civic center where art, recreation, and craft elevate work—linking Southwark’s theatrical heritage to modern industry and casting the institute as an “arsenal for peace.” The start of Chapter IV argues that mathematics in general education should shed recondite detail for a small set of powerful ideas—number, quantity, and space—illustrated through experiments, graphs, simple calculus, statistics, and the history of ideas (for example, Euclid’s Book V). (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77011,908,'Reading ease score: 47.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77011,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77011,704);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77011,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77011,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77012,520,'Die Weiße Rose by B. Traven is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in the Mexican oil zone, it contrasts an aggressively expansionist U.S. oil company with an Indigenous hacendado, Hacinto Yanyez, whose ancestral, communal understanding of land refuses commodification. As the company targets the hacienda La Rosa Blanca, the narrative focuses on the clash between corporate power, legal maneuvers, and the dignity and cohesion of a rural community.  The opening of the novel establishes the Condor Oil Company’s voracious land-grab tactics and then centers on La Rosa Blanca, an eight-hundred-hectare hacienda owned by Hacinto Yanyez. Agents arrive to lease or buy, brandishing promises and piles of gold, but Hacinto rejects them on principle, seeing the land as a trust for his descendants and his compadres rather than a saleable asset. Scenes of daily life on the hacienda—kinship ties, work rhythms, songs, and the compadre system—underscore what would be lost if the community were uprooted, while even the foreman Margarito refuses higher wages in the oil camps because they mean permanent exile. When negotiation fails, the agent departs in anger, hinting at coercion to come. A sharp cut to the company’s San Francisco headquarters introduces its smiling, slogan-plastered president, whose private indulgences and ruthless resolve reveal the impersonal force arrayed against the hacienda, setting the conflict in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77012,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_White_Rose_(Traven_novel) https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Die_wei%C3%9Fe_Rose',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77012,908,'Reading ease score: 68.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77012,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77012,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77013,520,'"Historical sketches of the south" by Emma Langdon Roche is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It traces the origins, laws, and persistence of American slavery, then narrows to a vivid, documentarian chronicle of the last known slave ship, the Clotilde, and the Africans (the Tarkars) brought to Alabama. Blending broad history with eyewitness testimony and the author’s own illustrations, it focuses especially on Mobile, the illegal trade’s networks, and the formation of a distinct African community.  The opening of the work surveys how contrasting colonial cultures in Virginia and New England shaped attitudes toward slavery, outlines the rise of the tobacco economy and the 1619 arrival of enslaved Africans, and follows early Southern-led efforts (notably Jefferson’s) to restrict the trade amid Northern commercial complicity. It then details how illegal trafficking flourished despite the 1808 ban, covering diplomatic clashes with Britain, the Ashburton Treaty patrols, and notorious cases like the Wanderer and Echo. The narrative shifts to Mobile in 1858–1859—amid filibuster tensions and local defiance—where river-man Tim Meaher and Captain William Foster send the schooner Clotilde to Dahomey; it recounts the Dahomean raid on the Tarkars, their laws and customs, their sale at Whydah, and the harsh but comparatively less brutal “middle passage” under Foster. Finally, it describes the clandestine night tow up Mobile Bay, the burning and scuttling of the Clotilde, and the secret removal of 116 captives to a canebrake plantation, where they were hidden in whispered silence—marking only the beginning of their story. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77013,908,'Reading ease score: 53.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77013,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77013,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77014,520,'"Select works of Porphyry :  Containing his four books on abstinence from animal…." by Porphyry is a collection of philosophical treatises written in the 3rd century. It gathers his ethical case for abstaining from animal food, an allegorical interpretation of Homer’s Cave of the Nymphs, and brief auxiliaries for understanding intelligible realities, here presented in English with scholarly framing. The focus is Neoplatonic ethics and metaphysics aimed at a contemplative, purified life, with a translator’s appendix elaborating the Odyssey’s allegory.  The opening of the volume presents a translator’s introduction that sketches Porphyry’s life, his role in transmitting and clarifying Platonism, and outlines the contents and aims of the included works. Then Book I of On Abstinence begins as a letter rebuking a friend (Firmus) for returning to meat-eating; Porphyry announces that he will answer the strongest objections—from Stoics, Peripatetics, Epicureans, and a polemicist named Clodius—and he summarizes their claims about justice, utility, law, sacrifice, medicine, population, and transmigration. He then marks off his true audience—those seeking a contemplative life—and argues that happiness is living according to intellect, which requires withdrawing from the senses and passions (especially those inflamed by diet), cultivating solitude and moderation, and choosing light, simple foods so the soul loosens its bond to the body and turns upward to intelligible being. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77014,908,'Reading ease score: 47.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77014,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77014,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77015,520,'"Matkahawannoita Wiron ja Liiwin maalta" by C. G. Swan is a travelogue written in the late 19th century. The work follows a Finnish traveler’s journey through Estonia and Livonia, from Helsinki to Tallinn and Tartu, mixing on-the-spot observations with history and social commentary. It highlights medieval towns, churches, transport and prices, and everyday customs, while documenting the Estonian national awakening around choral festivities and the memory of emancipation from serfdom.  The beginning of the travelogue frames Finns and Estonians as brother peoples, contrasts material hardship with Estonians’ “spiritual hunger,” and invites readers along to jubilee festivities in Tartu. The narrator sails to Tallinn and vividly describes the harbor approach, the city’s walls, churches, Toompea, and historical anecdotes, noting sharp social divisions and practicalities of travel. With no railway, he proceeds by post road toward Tartu, sketching the flat-to-undulating landscape, peasant houses, beggars and geese, and the drivers’ stops at roadside inns. On the way he repeatedly meets choirs bound for the festival and is moved when they greet the Finns by singing national songs. Arriving in Tartu, he sketches the town, its university setting, and the Vanemuine society’s organization of a large song festival led by J. W. Jannsen, with rehearsals, a church service, and concerts. The section culminates in Jakob Hurt’s speech urging public spirit, the loyalty of educated Estonians to their people, and the creation of higher Estonian-language schools, with reactions briefly noted before the account turns to the banquet. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77015,908,'Reading ease score: 32.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77015,648);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77016,520,'"The trail of deception" by W. C. Tuttle is a Western novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Jim Bailey, a down-on-his-luck city bookkeeper who assumes the identity of “Jim Meade” to claim the Lazy H ranch in Arizona at the urging of a scheming lawyer, Ed McLean, drawing him into rustling, murder, and small-town suspicion while Mary Deal and the mysterious cowhand Skeeter Smith complicate his path.  The opening of this novel shows Bailey declared dead after his roommate dies wearing Bailey’s suit and watch, prompting Bailey to take a letter meant for the roommate and travel to Pinnacle City under the alias “Jim Meade.” There he learns a new will leaves the Lazy H to a nephew named Jim Meade, not to Mary Deal who was raised by the deceased rancher; the banker is wary, the townspeople resent him, and three drunken allies of Mary bungle a prank-turned-threat. After a fatal bank shooting removes the skeptical banker, McLean installs Bailey at the ranch, where Bailey’s painful attempts to become a cowhand lead him to stumble upon covert branding; rustlers kill his horse and he barely escapes, rescued by Skeeter, who later pressures McLean and hints at knowing the real Meade. Tensions spike when Bailey punches McLean in town, and the section ends with Tellurium and Archibald plotting a holdup as masked men enter McLean’s office, tightening the knot of conspiracy and danger. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77016,908,'Reading ease score: 84.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77016,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77016,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77016,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77016,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77017,520,'"Some forgotten Pennsylvania heroines by Henry W. Shoemaker" is a historical address and collection of brief biographical sketches written in the early 20th century. It challenges status-based notions of fame and spotlights overlooked Pennsylvania women from frontier, Revolutionary, and Civil War contexts, emphasizing courage, service, and moral character.  The address opens by questioning familiar icons and then recounts vivid lives of lesser-known figures: Mary Jemison, the Seneca-adopted “White Woman of the Genesee”; Regina Hartman, recognized after captivity by a hymn at Carlisle; and “Molly Pitcher,” who manned a cannon at Monmouth and endured hardship afterward. It adds brisk vignettes of frontier bravery and sacrifice—Peggy Marteeny’s rescue under Indian pursuit, Sabina Wolfe’s rise from country girl to social leader, Barbara Frietchie’s defiant flag, Frances Slocum’s life among Native Americans, Elizabeth Zane’s frontier heroism, and Jennie Wade’s death at Gettysburg. The narrative links Pennsylvania roots to national figures like Nancy Hanks and tells the tragic tale of Mary Wolford, namesake of Young Woman’s Creek. It closes with a call to memorialize these women as exemplars of modesty, grit, and public spirit, noting contemporaries such as Jane Addams who carry their legacy forward. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77017,908,'Reading ease score: 45.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77017,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77017,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77017,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77018,520,'"Madri.... per ridere : romanzo" by Cesare Tronconi is a novel written in the late 19th century. It appears to be a caustic social satire about hypocrisy, respectability, and the making of “mothers” and women shaped by appearances rather than virtue. The story centers on Maddalena, a striking and increasingly calculating young woman from a modest family, whose transformation is catalyzed by a seductive neighbor, Severina, and a secret attraction to Severina’s brother. Expect a sharp critique of bourgeois morals, the education of girls, and the gap between public piety and private appetites.  The opening of the work moves from a sardonic funeral scene—where mourners shun two ominous women—to a vehement letter that brands Maddalena “the Evil,” then rewinds to her origins. We meet her parents, the punctilious ex-dogana clerk Ildebrando and the devout, simple Caterina; her birth is framed by superstitious omens, and her childhood is marked by precocious will, emotional opacity, and social ostracism at a snobbish school. As an adolescent she grows restless and is drawn to Severina, a poised “widow” whose perfumed, sensuous apartment and conversation school Maddalena in toilette, allure, and worldly cynicism. Under this influence, she refashions herself, spurns a safe suitor, and quietly cultivates a flirtation with Severina’s brother, while the narration sketches the type of idle, debt-driven beaux who live off charm—hinting at the kind of man she may be courting. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77018,908,'Reading ease score: 49.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77018,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77018,641);
insert into author_urls (fk_authors, description, url) values (58704,'it.wikipedia','https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cesare_Tronconi');
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77019,520,'"A preface to morals" by Walter Lippmann is a work of social and moral philosophy written in the early 20th century. It examines the modern loss of religious certainty and authority, the emptiness that can follow emancipation from orthodoxy, and the need to find a credible, disciplined humanism to guide conduct in a secular world. Lippmann probes why both triumphant disbelief and nostalgic return fail to satisfy, and why moral life requires more than taste, mood, or fashion.  The opening of the book traces the “problem of unbelief”: those no longer anchored by ancestral faith feel aimless despite newfound freedoms, and the liberal prophecy of deliverance has disappointed, leaving people nervously credulous and tempted by new cults. Lippmann contrasts modernist redefinitions of God (abstract, symbolic, or metaphysical) that lack compelling authority with fundamentalist demands for literal historical facts; he shows how the former cannot sustain popular devotion, while the latter, lacking a sure arbiter, collapses into schism—Catholic critique included. He argues that higher criticism and “decoding” Scripture (e.g., turning immortality into a platonic ideal) strip religion of the certainty and external sanction that once consoled, commanded, and unified ordinary believers. Finally, he sketches the “acids of modernity”: shifting political analogies for God, urbanization, mobility, media-driven novelty, and the loss of familiar landmarks all corrode piety; fundamentalist agitation appears as anxious compensation for a confidence that has already ebbed. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77019,908,'Reading ease score: 50.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77019,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77019,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77019,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77020,520,'"Ten recreational parties by Helen Durham" is a practical guidebook to social entertainments written in the early 20th century. It presents themed party plans and simple “recreational dramatics” for community groups, schools, and clubs, moving from easy game nights to costumed scenes and tableaux. The topic is how to stage colorful, low-cost gatherings using clear directions, basic props, music cues, and cooperative participation.  The book begins with the author’s approach—tested while directing YWCA recreation—then offers ten themed programs. The Peanut, Newspaper, and Balloon Parties use playful invitations, simple props, and lively relays, musical games, and group contests. The Doll Party adds a doll-dressing contest and a pantomime with a choreographed “doll dance.” The Japanese Party supplies setting, story narration for Madame Butterfly, and a geisha-style song and dance with steps. A Washington’s Birthday program parades “American girls” across eras with costumes, music cues, a minuet, and a grand march. The Circus Party covers decorations, sideshows, barkers, easy booth games, and a “Big Show” with parade, clowns, animals, jugglers, and a comic tightrope act. Two short scenic interludes—the Italian Street Scene and a Gypsy camp—blend song, dance, and character business. The finale is a simple, reverent Christmas Service of carols and tableaux (Magi, Shepherds, Nativity) with lighting and staging notes. Throughout, the plans emphasize clarity, adaptability, and audience participation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77020,908,'Reading ease score: 72.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77020,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77020,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77021,520,'"Is 5 by E. E. Cummings" is a collection of poems written in the early 20th century. The book explores modern urban life, love and desire, war and nationalism, and the spectacle of American and European culture through experimental language, typography, and voice.  The poems move from sharp city vignettes and character sketches (barrooms, chorus girls, hustlers, and “five Americans”) into satirical takes on advertising, art, and patriotic bombast, then to antiwar pieces that expose propaganda and loss. Scenes of Paris—cathedrals, street performers, political clashes between communists and flics—contrast with intimate lyrics of tenderness, bodies, seasons, and mortality. Notable moments include a bawdy car-as-lover seduction, a comic elegy for “Uncle Sol,” and the celebrated credo “since feeling is first.” The final section gathers concentrated love poems that celebrate immediacy and touch while acknowledging time’s ruin, ending in a humble confession that only the beloved’s aliveness can redeem the poet’s failures. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77021,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Is_5',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77021,908,'Reading ease score: 39.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77021,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77021,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77022,520,'"The porcelain mask :  A detective story" by John Jay Chichester is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. Set around a Hudson River estate called Greenacres, it centers on novelist Kirklan Gilmore, his beautiful new wife Helen, and his devoted stepsister Joan Sheridan, whose homecoming collides with a sudden marriage and a rash of secrets. When an intense illustrator, Victor Sarbella, arrives and clearly recognizes Helen, and a menacing figure from Helen’s past resurfaces, the domestic idyll turns ominous. The story promises a blend of romantic tension, blackmail, and crime that entangles family loyalty and hidden identities.  The opening of the novel follows Joan’s unexpected return to Greenacres and her shock at discovering that Kirk has married Helen, who has claimed Joan’s cherished room and unsettled the household. Kirk goes to New York to placate his publisher while Helen secretly slips into the city to meet Don Haskins, a criminal who reveals himself as her first husband and blackmails her for a thousand dollars to fund his escape after a fatal job. Atchinson later thinks he sees Helen entering a seedy lodging house, fueling Kirk’s suspicions; that night, Victor Sarbella arrives and his charged, mutual recognition with Helen poisons an already strained dinner. Kirk confronts Victor in the studio, demanding answers about Helen’s past, but gets only denials and a promise to discuss work tomorrow, as the parallel thread closes with Detective Sergeant Tish trailing “Eighth Avenue Annie” back to her hideout, poised to catch Haskins. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77022,908,'Reading ease score: 75.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77022,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77022,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77022,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77023,520,'"Stick to the raft" by Mrs. George Gladstone is a religious children''s novel written in the late 19th century. It is a moral tale set along the Saale in Bavaria, following Hans Richter, a woodcutter’s son whose dying father’s counsel—“stick to the raft”—becomes both rafting advice and a Christian motto. Taken in by the toll-master Karl Schmidt at Kösen, Hans faces grief, poverty, workplace trials at the weir, and a simmering rivalry with the miller’s son Robert and his scheming friend Paul, as faith, honesty, and courage are tested.  The opening of the story introduces the Fichtel Mountains, Hans’s devout father and his deathbed charge, and Hans’s move to Kösen to help guide rafts over the weir under the stern-but-kind toll-master, Karl, and his gentle, invalid mother. Hans adopts “Stick to the Raft” as a call to cling to Christ while working the river; he is provoked by Robert and the malicious Paul, briefly loses his temper over a petty prank, and is lovingly corrected. As Hans trains for the town’s shooting festival, a visit to Naumburg’s cherry feast—and a lesson on the martyr John Huss—frame the book’s theme of patient endurance; there Paul secretly injures Hans with a squib, sidelining him from the competition. Robert wins amid guilt, Hans bears his setback with grace, and an elderly sausage-seller who overheard Paul’s plot arrives at the toll-house, intent on setting the wrong right. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77023,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77023,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77023,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77023,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77023,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77024,520,'"Just in time" by Catharine Shaw is a didactic children''s novel written in the late 19th century. The story follows Pollie, a miller’s daughter whose forgetfulness and quick temper strain home life, as new influences draw her toward sincere Christian faith. Between a rural mill and a bustling provincial town, she navigates family friction, fashionable cousins, and a secretive courtship that tests truth and loyalty.  The opening of the novel shows Pollie clashing with her mother at the mill while finding tenderness and counsel from her devout father. Sent to her aunt in Chichester, she encounters her cousins’ worldliness and Laura’s clandestine admirer “H. F.,” then meets Miss Loveday, whose guidance and a Town Hall mission lead both Pollie and her uncle to a decisive conversion. A picnic exposes the admirer as a shallow flirt, deepening Pollie’s concern for her cousins. Back home she struggles to submit and apologize, seeks Miss Loveday’s help, and learns of Miss Loveday’s own painful obedience in breaking off an engagement to Harry Fulbert after a damaging report. Pollie’s father reveals there are two cousins with that name—one upright, one not—prompting Pollie to inform the vicar; as the vicar prepares to investigate, word arrives that Harry has not sailed and has come to the vicarage, hinting that the misunderstanding may be resolved. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77024,908,'Reading ease score: 82.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77024,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77024,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77024,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77024,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77025,520,'"The house with the silver door" by Eva March Tappan is a collection of children’s fairy tales written in the early 20th century. It offers whimsical, gently moral adventures filled with talking animals, enchanted tools, giants, and moonlit royalty, where brave children prove themselves through kindness, courage, and cleverness. The early stories center on siblings seeking a wondrous silver door for their parents and a boy named Hansel pursuing his fortune with the aid of magical helpers.  The opening of the collection begins with “The House with the Silver Door,” in which Silverboy and Silvergirl leave their forest home to find a silver door, receiving riddling guidance from a Wizard Squirrel, bargaining with the All-Alone Axe, and enlisting a Gentle Giant on the way to the Moon Lady’s Wonder Palace. Silverboy’s quest for spider silk to reach the moon leads to his capture by the Slippery Spider, but he is rescued—along with the Pearl Princess—by the Thoughtful Snail and Friendly Glowworm; joyous weddings follow, and the siblings ultimately bring their parents to a golden palace behind a shining silver door. The next tale, “King Hansel the First,” shows Hansel trying four roads, helping a cock, a cat, and some bees who each give him a seed and shrewd advice for answering giants. Captured by three monstrous brothers, he survives by giving the right answers, while the giants meet their ends through their own folly and the enchanted world’s aid. In a dungeon, Hansel and a captive magician use the seeds to conjure food, a knife, and chalk for a protective circle, rout the last giant, and uncover a treasure-filled castle—where the excerpt closes as they prepare to claim a new beginning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77025,908,'Reading ease score: 84.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77025,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77025,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77025,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77025,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77026,520,'Vanilla culture as practiced in the Seychelles Islands by S. J. Galbraith is a scientific agricultural bulletin written in the late 19th century. It explains the practical cultivation and processing of vanilla, emphasizing climate, soil, planting systems, hand pollination, curing, and marketing, with guidance shaped by experience in the Seychelles.  The bulletin opens with a warning by D. G. Fairchild about a devastating fungous disease and the need to exclude it from new growing regions, then presents Galbraith’s field-tested methods. He describes the Seychelles’ humid, warm conditions and suitable soils; advocates wider spacing and training vines on individual support trees to reduce disease; and explains how to start a vanillery using long cuttings, mulching, shading, and careful tying and lowering of vines. He details preparing vines for flowering by timely checking of growth to align with a short dry spell, then outlines precise hand pollination, prudent fruit set per vine, and harvest cues to avoid splitting. The curing method features brief hot-water scalds, sweating in blankets, and slow drying through a heated, then warm, then cool room, followed by sorting by length and quality, neat bundling, and tin packing. Practical notes cover variable yields tied to weather, labor organization, pruning, replanting from cuttings, alternative sun-curing, and root mulching strategies. A closing summary lists ideal conditions and step-by-step best practices for culture, cropping, curing, and marketing. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77026,908,'Reading ease score: 59.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77026,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77026,679);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77027,520,'"A brief summary in plain language of the most important laws concerning women…" by Barbara Leigh Smith is a legal pamphlet and reformist tract written in the Victorian era. It explains the civil and property status of women in Britain, especially under marriage, and argues for legal reform to secure women’s separate rights. The likely topic of the book is the effect of English law on women’s property, marriage, divorce, custody, and civic standing.  The work first outlines the position of unmarried women, who can own property and pay taxes but lack political franchise, and explains inheritance rules that favor male heirs in real property. It then details marriage law, including prohibited degrees, civil and ecclesiastical forms, and Scottish irregular marriages, before setting out coverture: a wife’s legal identity merges with her husband’s, who controls her person, earnings, and personal property; her contracts and lawsuits must run through him; and he holds strong rights over her real estate during cohabitation. Equity offers limited relief through settlements for a wife’s separate use, but custody of children rests with the father, and divorce is costly and largely a privilege of the rich; only separation is commonly obtainable, while full dissolution requires parliamentary action. The pamphlet summarizes widows’ rights (paraphernalia, dower or jointure, a share in personalty if intestate), women’s capacities as agents, trustees, or executors (often constrained by marriage), and the harsh treatment of illegitimate children and their mothers under maintenance and inheritance rules. In its concluding remarks, it criticizes over-legislation and the injustice of husbands’ control of wives’ earnings—especially harmful to working-class families—surveys fairer practices abroad, and presents a reform program: allowing married women to hold separate property, make contracts and wills, adjust spousal liabilities, and establish equal succession rights, urging public petition to secure these changes. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77027,908,'Reading ease score: 52.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77027,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77027,690);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77027,657);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77028,520,'"Uncle Tweazy and his quizzical neighbours, vol. 2 :  a comi-satiric novel" is a comic-satiric novel written in the early 19th century. Set in a country parish, it skewers provincial pretension and gossip through the sharp-eyed Uncle Tweazy and his nephew, Victor St. Alban. Its central thread is Victor’s instant infatuation with the angelic Rosa Fitzclarence of the Rectory, counterpointed by his uncle’s aching memory of a lost first love, while a bustling gallery of neighbours provides farce and social satire.  The opening of the novel follows Uncle Tweazy and Victor to the Rectory, where Rosa’s beauty, harp-playing, and voice transfix them—so much so that Uncle Tweazy later reveals his sorrowful past with Cecilia Delmond, whose fate echoes in Rosa’s features. Dr. Tonic barges in with village gossip, and a run of episodes ensues: a flashy masked-party invite from Mrs. Fungus, a coarse encounter with the miller’s wife and the filthy baker Sponge, and a gracious tour of Lady Lustre’s grounds. A boisterous dinner at Mrs. Henpeck’s parades caricatures—Munchausen’s absurd boasts, the henpecked host, and petty spats—before Sunday service showcases Rosa’s devout singing and magnetism for the whole congregation. Back at the Rectory, talk of sermons and scandal gives way to a gentle botanical walk where Victor and Rosa quietly bond. Plans to return for tea risk being spoiled by Dr. Tonic’s intrusion, and the section closes as uncle and nephew set out for the Rectory, hoping to avoid him. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77028,908,'Reading ease score: 56.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77028,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77028,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77028,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77029,520,'Le droit à la paresse :  réfutation du droit au travail de 1848 by Paul Lafargue is a political-economic essay and socialist polemic written in the late 19th century. It challenges the capitalist cult of work and the liberal “right to work,” instead advocating the right to leisure as a foundation for human flourishing.  The book denounces the moral, religious, and economic glorification of labor, arguing that overwork degrades bodies and minds, exploits women and children, and fuels overproduction, crises, and poverty. Drawing on historical contrasts with ancient disdain for servile toil, factory reports of brutal hours, and the absurdities of bourgeois consumption and colonial expansion, it claims machines should liberate people rather than enslave them. It calls to ration labor across the year, reduce daily work to three hours, expand rest and festivals, and raise workers’ consumption so production serves life. A satirical finale and an appendix of classical authorities reinforce the central demand: reject the “right to work,” and embrace leisure as the mother of arts and virtues. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77029,908,'Reading ease score: 54.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77029,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77029,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77029,696);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77029,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77030,520,'"Polku" by Gabriel Scott is a novel written in the early 20th century. It follows Kristofer, a sensitive, unusually tall boy with a stutter, who finds refuge from ridicule in the mountains and dreams of becoming a shepherd. Through lyrical nature writing and village lore, the path up the fell becomes a spiritual guide, tracing themes of cruelty and kindness, belonging, and quiet endurance.  The opening of the novel dwells first on the hush of dusk and the winding mountain path, naming lakes, ridges, and the remnants of a tiny stone hut and sheepfold linked to “Vesa-Kristofer,” who planted living switches wherever he walked. The narrative then turns to Kristofer’s childhood: mocked for his height and speech, tormented by a kyttyräselkäinen boy, and belittled by a fault-finding father, he discovers solace building a miniature sheepfold and playing shepherd among rocks and heather. A revelatory moment comes when he sees the seasoned shepherd Nils Vatne driving a flock at sunset; the boy secretly walks at night to a distant fold to ask about becoming a shepherd and is gently encouraged to grow. Later, a bell he treasures betrays his hideaway to the bullies, who destroy his little world and injure his back; bedridden and weakened, Kristofer endures his father’s impatience while clinging to the faint, consoling chime of the bell and to visions of the path that leads into the mountains. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77030,908,'Reading ease score: 44.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77030,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77031,520,'"Just a bit too fast by Hal Moore" is a pulp crime short story written in the late 1920s. The tale centers on a crafty bank robber known as Thought-and-a-half Morgan and the detectives on his trail, blending disguise, bluff, and a rapid urban chase.  Told by a local plainclothes cop paired with visiting Detective Halloran, the story opens with Morgan, disguised as an old woman, holding the two at gunpoint in a quiet branch bank and escaping with cash to a waiting car. After a brief pursuit, Halloran diverts to a shabby downtown hideout identified from earlier intel, and the pair set an ambush in a dark room. When Morgan and his accomplice return, a tense doorfront showdown ends with Halloran’s shot knocking the gun from Morgan’s hand, the officers rushing both men, and the arrest made. The kicker: Halloran later credits brilliant tactics with surviving Morgan’s shot, but the narrator reveals it was dumb luck—the flashlight he “used” was accidentally snagged on his watch chain. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77031,908,'Reading ease score: 76.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77031,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77031,640);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77032,520,'"The Garden Yard: A Handbook of Intensive Farming" by Bolton Hall is a practical agricultural handbook written in the early 20th century. It explains how ordinary people can turn small plots, backyards, or suburban lots into productive, profitable garden farms through intensive cultivation. The focus is on practical methods—soil preparation, crop planning, seed selection, pest control, marketing, and co-operative selling—aimed at making a good living near towns and cities.  The opening of this handbook sets a clear, down-to-earth tone: the preface promises plain advice for busy, non-scientific readers and urges learning by doing. An introduction by N. O. Nelson champions farm life, proposes colony purchases of land, and strongly advocates co-operation for buying, marketing, and credit. Early chapters then outline the core method: grow garden crops near markets; think first about market access; favor ownership over renting; keep buildings simple; and use brains more than brawn. The text explains soil and subsoil, moisture and mulch, humus and tilth; stresses fertility through green manures and legumes; advises on choosing a location with access to manure, water, and buyers; and covers seed quality, simple germination tests, and practical plant-breeding by selection. It summarizes plant needs (water, air, light, warmth, lime), the value of crop rotation, and the control of weeds, insects, and diseases, before showing how to restore soil with humus, even touching on lawn care. At the start of the working plan, it recommends a modest plot, fall plowing, testing for soil acidity, applying manure wisely, and planting in long rows for easy wheel-hoe cultivation. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77032,908,'Reading ease score: 67.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77032,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77032,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77032,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77033,520,'"The sinister mark" by Lee Thayer is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. The story centers on the sudden disappearance of celebrated actress Mary Blake and the troubling hints of violence left behind, drawing in her admirer Donald Van Loo Morris and private detective Peter Clancy. As a staged burglary, a blood-stained scarf, and a secretive sister named Anne come into focus, the case blends romance, identity, and danger into a tightly wound mystery.  The opening of the novel follows Mary Blake’s tense supper with Donald, who confesses his love as she hints at a burden she cannot share. After slipping home alone, Mary sends Donald a frantic, intimate letter about a hidden past, imminent danger, and a decisive step she must take; she vows to return clean—or disappear forever—while warning that only her elusive sister Anne would remain. Alarmed, Donald rushes to her apartment and finds a silk scarf caught in the door smeared with blood; the rooms look looted, ashes of burned papers lie in the grate, and the kitchen window’s broken pane suggests a faked break‑in. Peter Clancy takes the case, notes signs the occupants planned to leave, discovers blood spots in the hall, misses a mysterious phone caller asking for Anne, and then tracks a taxi driver who hauled a single woman and a heavy trunk from the building to the Pennsylvania Station—likely Anne, veiled and marked by a crimson birthmark—setting the investigation in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77033,908,'Reading ease score: 78.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77033,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77033,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77033,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77034,520,'"The works of the Reverend George Whitefield, M.A., Vol. 5 (of 6) : Containing…." by George Whitefield is a collection of sermons written in the late 18th century. The volume gathers evangelical expositions on Scripture that press themes of human sin, Christ’s redeeming work, conversion, holy living, and practical devotion. Expect vigorous, plainspoken appeals, doctrinal clarity about grace versus works, and pastoral guidance for daily piety.  The opening of the volume presents transcriber’s notes, a title page outlining sermons, tracts, and letters, a detailed contents list, and then launches into the sermons. Sermon I expounds Genesis 3:15, retelling the Fall, exposing Satan’s subtlety, contrasting human fig‑leaf righteousness with God’s grace, identifying the “seed of the woman” as Christ, and arguing that salvation rests on the covenant of grace rather than human conditions; it urges believers to expect persecution yet promises Christ’s ultimate victory. Sermon II, on “Walking with God” (Genesis 5:24), defines such walking as reconciliation through Christ, habitual communion, and steady growth, and prescribes means—Scripture, secret prayer, meditation, reading providence, heeding the Spirit by the Word, ordinances, and fellowship—before motivating hearers by the honour, joy, and heavenly end of such a life, with pointed calls to sinners, saints, and ministers. Sermon III begins the testing of Abraham (Genesis 22), distinguishing God’s trials from temptations to evil and highlighting Abraham’s ready obedience, but the excerpt breaks off as that exposition gets underway. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77034,908,'Reading ease score: 60.7 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77034,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77034,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77035,520,'"Liberty and the news by Walter Lippmann" is a collection of political essays written in the early 20th century. It is a non-fiction tract that examines how freedom, public opinion, and journalism intersect, with a concise focus on the crisis of news reliability and its consequences for democratic self-government.  The book argues that democracy cannot function without a steady flow of truthful, relevant, and intelligible news. It critiques the press for subordinating truth to patriotic edification, shows how classical defenses of free speech (from Milton and Mill to Russell) collapse when facts are missing, and explains how complexity, distance, and propaganda create a pseudo-environment that misleads the public and empowers demagogues. The author shifts the liberty debate from policing opinions to protecting the sources, organization, and comprehension of information. He proposes practical reforms: transparent sourcing and documentation, stronger accountability for falsehoods, professional training for reporters in evidence and language, and independent institutes to record and analyze government and public affairs. He urges universities to support this work and calls for an endowed, editorially neutral news service to compete with biased structures. The core message is that genuine liberty is secured by institutions that make facts accessible and trustworthy, so public opinion can be both free and responsible. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77035,908,'Reading ease score: 48.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77035,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77035,698);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77035,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77035,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77036,520,'“A millionaire at sixteen : or, The cruise of the Guardian-Mother” by Oliver Optic is a juvenile adventure novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Louis Belgrave, a level‑headed sixteen-year-old who has unexpectedly become a millionaire, as he embarks on sea-going adventures shaped by duty to his mother, guidance from a prudent trustee, and the lure of world travel. Expect nautical action, moral tests, and a globe‑trotting premise centered on yachting, with figures like the genial Uncle Moses, the seasoned Captain Ringgold, and a menacing former stepfather complicating the voyage.  The opening of the story sets up Louis’s fortune, character, and intentions: after good‑natured sparring with his trustee about wealth and prudence, he plans to buy a modest schooner for quiet cruising with his mother. A suave stranger, “Mr. Frinks Fobbington,” offers a too‑good‑to‑be‑true yacht inspection at Southfield; Louis goes with his mother, Captain Ringgold, and his friend Felix. Once aboard, the schooner unexpectedly gets under way, and Louis discovers it is actually the Maud, commanded by his mother’s disreputable former husband, with “Fobbington” revealed as the mate. As a blow rises and the crew traps Ringgold and Felix below, Louis tends to his seasick mother, steels her resolve against the villain, then slips through a pantry passage, pries open the lower hatch, and frees his companions. The section closes with the group regrouping in the second cabin amid worsening weather, learning they are bound for England, and preparing to resist. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77036,908,'Reading ease score: 73.8 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77036,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77036,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77036,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77036,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77037,520,'"Pelle Erobreren 4: Gryet" by Martin Andersen Nexø is a novel written in the early 20th century. The book follows the working-class agitator Pelle as he leaves prison and tries to reclaim a place in Copenhagen’s labor movement while rebuilding his broken family life. Set in a vividly drawn urban Denmark, it blends social struggle with intimate questions of guilt, love, and renewal. Readers can expect a sober, human portrait of a man caught between public cause and private duty.  The opening of the story sets a stark contrast between a forbidding prison and the bright spring fields, then follows Pelle’s first steps into freedom. He encounters the embittered Ferdinand, refuses to be drawn back into crime after a scuffle, and walks toward the city reflecting on the hard lessons of solitude—his guilt toward Ellen and the children, the shock of learning about a new child, and a determined hope to begin again. Reaching Nørrebro on election day, he cannot find his family at the old address, briefly and painfully recognizes his son, is ignored or misremembered at a tavern, and rescues the drunken Glade Jakob, whose fate exposes how easily the fallen are cast aside. At a workers’ rally he is recognized and pushed to speak; his quiet, inward speech disappoints the crowd but earns him one supporter who gives Ellen’s new address, and the section closes with him resolved to visit her as the city stirs to morning work. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77037,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelle_the_Conqueror_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77037,908,'Reading ease score: 86.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77037,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77037,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77038,520,'"Trading in Scrabbletown" by Alice Brayton is a historical account written in the mid-20th century. Drawing on a cache of early 19th-century shop papers, it reconstructs the trading world of Scrabbletown (Swansea, Massachusetts) through the life and work of trader Israel Brayton. The focus is on how his company store linked local farms, weavers, and small factories to regional markets, with recurring figures like his wife Keziah, partners John Mason and William Bowers, and clerk Wheaton Luther.  The opening of the book explains the discovery of a barrel of never-published papers and uses them to identify Brayton and his network, then sketches his family background, brief wartime service, and marriage before following his return in 1815 to open a company store tied to the Swansea Union Cotton Manufacturing Company. It shows how he organized home weavers, paid largely in goods, and stocked an astonishing range of supplies sourced from Boston, Providence, and beyond, while juggling credit, counterfeit notes, and shortages. The narrative then follows his expansion to an Egypt (Somerset) branch, additional yarn from the Lyman and Georgia mills, and dealings with the Fall River (Troy) factory, alongside glimpses of community life—poor relief, school governance, church singing, and period reading tastes. A sizable section traces a straw-bonnet venture: placing braid with local young women, pressing and boxing bonnets, and testing markets via trips to Newport, Albany, and New York. It closes with William Bowers in Savannah trying to sell bonnets and textiles on commission, reporting frank market feedback on fashion, sizing, and quality. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77038,908,'Reading ease score: 71.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77038,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77038,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77039,520,'"Kuningas Teivas, Pirkkalan valtias : nelinäytöksinen näytelmä" by Kaarle Halme is a four-act play written in the early 20th century. Set in a mythic Finland, it follows the Pirkkala ruler Teivas, his Halikko-born consort Pyynikki, Teivas’s son Lemma, and the Lapp leaders Kyrö and Inku as trade, tribute, and power collide. The drama centers on political intrigue, ethnic tensions, vengeance, and a dangerous attraction that threatens the fragile balance of power.  The opening of the play unfolds in Teivas’s hall, where the Lapp woman Inku laments her daughter’s ruin and conspires with the Lapp chief Kyrö: they speak of smuggling, burning the Pohjankangas as cover, and Halikko’s brewing revolt against Pirkkala. Pyynikki enters withdrawn, bonds warily with Inku, and brightens when Lemma arrives; their mutual passion flares and they plan to flee after news that Pyynikki’s father Hahma has died, but Teivas’s sudden return halts them. Teivas interrogates Kyrö and reveals Hahma was killed by a Nokian-marked arrow from Kyrö’s quiver, ordering him imprisoned, while Pyynikki coolly asks leave to attend the funeral with Lemma as escort; Teivas resists, intent on asserting marital rights first. At the start of the next scenes, Inku helps Kyrö slip out through a secret passage, Pyynikki wavers between escape and resolve, and Teivas and Lemma face a tightening siege: Halikko men across the water, Ulve’s dominance at Kokemäki, and Lapp tribes on the move, leaving Pirkkala in mounting peril. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77039,908,'Reading ease score: 62.2 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77039,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77039,646);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77040,520,'"Le Selve" by Ouida is a novel written in the late 19th century. Set in the vast Italian woodlands of Lazio, it follows Cyrille, a Russian exile turned estate steward, whose humane, orderly reforms clash with the ingrained brutality, poverty, and customs of the local squatters. At its heart stands Muriella, a strong, devout peasant who alone understands him, creating a stark, tense portrait of conscience, class, and survival amid a merciless rural world.  The opening of the novel shows an old peasant dying neglected by his family, as Cyrille arrives too late, rebukes their callousness, and meets Muriella in the night, who warns him he is in danger. The narrative then paints the history and grandeur of Le Selve and reveals Cyrille’s past as a Tolstoyan noble and political exile seeking purpose in stewardship, while the locals resent his curbs on theft, poaching, and abuse of “customary rights.” We see Caterina, the shrewd housekeeper; the grim burial at San Vitale that Muriella quietly oversees to prevent a fraud; and a kitchen scene where the under-steward Fausto and two friars rail at the “northerner” until Muriella defends his justice. At the start of this story, Muriella rejects Fausto’s advances, makes a pilgrimage to Viterbo to pray for Cyrille’s return home, endures her uncles’ suspicion, and continues to warn Cyrille that the men of the woods may kill him, while he contemplates helping her escape a hard life he cannot easily change. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77040,908,'Reading ease score: 77.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77040,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77040,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77041,520,'"The works of the Reverend George Whitefield, M.A., Vol. 6 (of 6) :  Containing…." by George Whitefield is a collection of sermons written in the late 18th century. This volume gathers evangelical preaching on repentance, faith, grace, and the work of the Holy Spirit, pressing hearers to turn from sin and embrace Christ. Its themes emphasize heartfelt conversion over outward religiosity, urgent calls to accept the gospel now, and warnings against self-righteousness. Readers can expect fervent appeals, vivid biblical exposition, and practical exhortation aimed at personal renewal.  The opening of the volume presents transcriber’s notes, a title page, and an extensive contents list of sermons keyed to scripture, then launches into preaching. Sermon XXXII (“A Penitent Heart”) defines true repentance as a God-wrought inner change—sorrow for sin, hatred of it, and forsaking it—explains its causes in divine grace, argues its necessity for salvation, and urges immediate turning to Christ with strong warnings and tender encouragements to great sinners and counsel to grateful believers. Sermon XXXIII (“The Gospel Supper”) expounds Luke’s parable of the great banquet, rebukes worldly excuses, traces its fulfillment from Jews to Gentiles, defends field-preaching, and warmly invites the poor and outcast to come to Christ while warning of the peril of refusal. Sermon XXXIV (“The Pharisee and Publican”) begins by exposing natural self-righteousness, contrasts Pharisee and Publican in the temple, critiques boastful prayer and judging others, and cautions against trusting in religious acts like fasting and tithing as grounds of justification. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77041,908,'Reading ease score: 61.6 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77041,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77041,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77042,520,'"Der Untergang des Abendlandes, Erster Band" by Oswald Spengler is a treatise on the philosophy of history written in the early 20th century. It contends that high cultures are living organisms with birth, growth, and decline, and advances a comparative “morphology” to forecast the West’s transition from culture to civilization. The work rejects linear, Eurocentric periodizations and reads arts, sciences, politics, and religion as symbols that express each culture’s inner form and destiny.  The opening of the book frames the project amid a crisis-ridden age and declares its aim: to determine whether history has a logic that allows one to foresee the remaining stages of Western culture. It contrasts mathematical law for dead forms with analogy for living forms, calling for a rigorous technique of historical comparison rather than casual parallels. The author distinguishes nature (causality, the logic of space, mathematical number) from history (fate, the logic of time, chronological number), and asks “for whom” history truly exists. He argues that Greeks and Indians were fundamentally ahistorical, whereas Egyptians were intensely historical, illustrating this through time-symbols like cremation versus mummification, calendars, and the invention of clocks. The book opposes the simplistic scheme of Antiquity–Middle Ages–Modernity and the provincial centrality of Western Europe, proposing instead multiple equal, landscape-bound high cultures that live and die by their own inner laws. It traces the tripartite scheme to late antique Gnostic-Christian thought, criticizes teleological philosophies, and urges a historically relative perspective that sees each culture’s arts, sciences, and morals as unique expressions of its fate. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77042,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Decline_of_the_West https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Untergang_des_Abendlandes',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77042,908,'Reading ease score: 53.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77042,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77042,655);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77042,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77043,520,'"Der Untergang des Abendlandes, Zweiter Band" by Oswald Spengler is a philosophical-historical treatise written in the early 20th century. It presents a sweeping “morphology of world history,” portraying high cultures as living organisms with fated life-cycles and situating the modern West in its phase of decline. This volume ranges across cities and peoples, religion, the state, politics, money, and technology to frame a grand comparative theory of cultural rise and decay.  The opening of the work contrasts the plant’s cosmic, bound, rhythmic life (Takt) with the animal’s free, polar, tension-filled microcosm (Spannung), then builds to the human world of the eye and light, where word-language emancipates understanding from sensation and gives rise to thinking. Spengler sets Dasein (destiny, time, blood) against Wachsein (spatial consciousness, causality), opposes facts to truths and practice to theory, and links human religiosity to the fear of the invisible and the recognition of death. He distinguishes “destiny men” (statesmen, warriors, entrepreneurs) from “causality men” (priests, scholars) and explores mass souls that surge beyond mere opinion into shared fate. Turning to “the group of high cultures,” he separates the world as history from the world as nature, shows how horizons widen from child and primitive life to cultural panoramas, contrasts Greek narrowness and Magian sacred chronologies with the faustian, planetary, and open-ended historical vista, and layers history from astronomy and geology through biology to human cultures and biography. The section closes by challenging 19th‑century mechanistic, surface-level explanations (Lyell, Darwin), urging a physiognomic, form-oriented reading of nature and history that seeks living patterns rather than causal systems. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77043,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Decline_of_the_West https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Untergang_des_Abendlandes',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77043,908,'Reading ease score: 56.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77043,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77043,655);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77044,520,'"Una misura eccezionale dei Romani, Il senatus-consultum ultimum (studio di storia e di diritto pubblico romano)" by Corrado Barbagallo is a historical-legal study written in the early 20th century. It investigates the senatus consultum ultimum as Rome’s emergency safeguard, cataloging its cases, reconstructing the legal framework that enabled it, and explaining its political function amid struggles between populares and optimates. The work analyzes procedures, formulas, and effects (including hostis publicus, tumultus, iustitium, intercessio, and provocatio) and argues how and why this extraordinary measure arose, endured, and ended with the imperial order.  The opening of the study sets out three aims—narrate every instance of the decree, rebuild the constitutional conditions that allowed it, and interpret its nature—while declaring a clear methodological stance that favors sociological (materialist) explanation over mere annalistic narrative. It then defines the senatus consultum ultimum as an exceptional delegation of power to consuls and others and re-examines the earliest purported cases (one amid a war with the Aequi, the other in the agitation around M. Manlius Capitolinus), embedding them in the harsh debt regime and plebeian distress, and weighing doubts about their historicity. Next, it sketches the later, better-attested uses tied to social and political crises: the Gracchan reforms and their repression, the violence around Saturninus and Glaucia, the Catilinarian emergency, and subsequent episodes through the late Republic (including measures against tribunes, urban tumult after Clodius’s death, and clashes around Caesar, Pompey, Antony, and Octavian). The excerpt closes by beginning a systematic treatment of the decree’s name, occasions, exclusion of intercessio, executional force, and flexible procedures regarding time, place, and formula. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77044,908,'Reading ease score: 40.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77044,659);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77044,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77044,694);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77045,520,'"Agricultural zoology" by J. Ritzema Bos is a scientific handbook written in the late 19th century. It surveys the animal kingdom with an emphasis on species that harm or help farming, offering clear identification, biology, and practical notes for students and working farmers.  The opening of the book sets its purpose and audience in the author’s and translator’s prefaces, with Eleanor A. Ormerod’s introduction underscoring its practical value; a detailed contents list signals broad coverage from vertebrates to protozoa. It then explains zoological classification and binomial naming, followed by a concise primer on vertebrate anatomy and physiology (skeleton, muscles, nerves, digestion, circulation and respiration, reproduction including alternation of generations), and how heart structure differs across vertebrate classes. The text proceeds into applied accounts of mammals relevant to agriculture: cats, dogs, foxes, and mustelids (marten, polecat/ferret, stoat, weasel, mink, otter, badger) with balanced notes on damage versus benefits; insect-eaters (shrews, the mole, hedgehog) largely presented as allies; bats as valuable nocturnal insect hunters; and rodents (hares and rabbits, then mice and rats) with concise identification and their typical harms. This opening portion concludes mid-discussion of mouse and rat species and their agricultural impact. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77045,908,'Reading ease score: 63.4 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77045,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77045,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77045,683);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77046,520,'"Gleanings in Europe :  Italy, vol. 2 of 2" by James Fenimore Cooper is a travelogue written in the early 19th century. It presents an American traveler’s observations as he moves through southern Italy and into Rome, blending vivid landscape writing with sketches of antiquities, local life, and pointed political asides. The focus is on coastal routes, ruined temples, museums, and city approaches, all filtered through a reflective, often comparative American eye.  The opening of the work follows the narrator from Sorrento down the precipitous Scaricatòjo to Amalfi by boat, then along the Gulf of Salerno to Eboli and the malarial plain en route to Paestum, whose massive Temple of Neptune sparks meditations on time and endurance. He contrasts desolate, fever-haunted lowlands, buffalo teams, and a tale of roadside murder with the grandeur of the ruins, then returns via Salerno, a mountain road to Pompeii, and Castel-a-Mare, where Murat’s wartime seizures prompt a sharp critique of American commercial politics. Back in Naples after a rough passage, he revels in street theaters on the mole, the softness of autumn skies, and the museum’s treasures, watching Herculaneum papyri painstakingly unrolled and musing on artifacts, taste, and even U.S. coin design. The route to Rome brings the great aqueduct and palace of Caserta, Capua, an accidental walk on a surviving stretch of the Appian Way, Gaeta and Terracina, and the Pontine Marshes (with a comic false alarm over supposed banditti). A first long view of the Roman Campagna leads to an awe-struck entrance past the Colosseum and Forum and a powerful first encounter with the immensity of St. Peter’s. The section closes with an outline of the Campagna and ancient walls, questioning the usual site of the Tarpeian Rock and weighing Rome’s wall circuits and population. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77046,908,'Reading ease score: 58.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77046,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77046,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77047,520,'"Wings of silver by Evelyn Gage Browne" is a collection of inspirational poems written in the early 20th century. The book centers on spiritual awakening and resilience, using images of wings, stars, sky, and the sea to explore love, faith, and the soul’s ascent beyond fear and sorrow.  The poems move from an opening hymn to the life-force that urges all creation to unfold, to meditations on purposeful journeying, the omnipresence of divine Love, and the patient power of faith. A cosmic chorus calls humanity to claim its divine likeness, while a life-spanning monologue transforms loss and death into homecoming. We encounter moral parables of weaving despair through hate or contentment through love, a vow to keep the heart’s door open despite risk, and a confession that fame and gold weave only a tattered web without Love as warp and woof. The speaker answers fear with song and lifts eyes above mire to the stars, reframing victory as the sweetness kept in the soul, not the struggle itself. The collection culminates in an extended prayer to the sky for cleansing, freedom, and uplift, asking to be remade in Love and set joyfully soaring. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77047,908,'Reading ease score: 77.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77047,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77047,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77048,520,'"Twenty years in Roumania" by Maude Rea Parkinson is a memoir of travel and social observation written in the early 20th century. Drawing on decades spent teaching and moving in Romanian society, it offers an intimate, often humorous portrait of the country’s people, institutions, and landscape, from the capital’s salons to village greens. Expect first-hand sketches of geography, politics, religion, and custom, framed by the author’s affectionate yet candid outlook.  The opening of the memoir sets out the author’s purpose and loyalties, then follows her youthful decision to settle in Bucarest, her arduous journey via Vienna and Hungary, and her bracing first impressions of the city. It quickly widens into a clear, informal guide to the country—its mountains, rivers, railways, and the drama of the Danube—before turning to parliament, raucous elections, and a stiff but brave army shaped by the monarchy. The religious life of the Greek Orthodox majority appears through priests’ rounds, Easter rites, and the legend of Curtea d’Argesh. Bucarest is sketched as a garden-like capital of trams, the Calea Victoriei, splendid churches, and domestic habits like serving “dulceata,” followed by a stark account of land tenure, peasant hardship, and a violent rural rising that drew troops to the countryside and anxiety to the capital, where she notably kept her nerve by going to church. The section then lingers on village life—music, the hora and sârba, embroidered dress, rustic weddings, and evening songs—while noting how townsfolk sometimes exploit peasant naivety. It closes by segueing into a discussion of trade and commerce. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77048,908,'Reading ease score: 57.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77048,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77048,643);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77049,520,'The adventures of Twinkly Eyes the little Black Bear by Allen Chaffee is a children’s nature adventure written in the early 20th century. The story follows a lively black bear cub named Twinkly Eyes (and his brother Woof) as he learns survival skills in the woods through playful mishaps and close calls. Episodic encounters with porcupines, snakes, storms, bees, rabbits, a lynx, and even a curious farm boy mix humor with gentle peril, while slipping in simple natural-history lessons. It’s a warm, instructive woodland romp designed to nurture empathy for wildlife.  The opening of the story shows Twinkly shoved into a lake by his brother, rescued by their watchful mother, and hastily taught to swim—and to climb—when a black snake slithers near and a prickly porcupine family commandeers their pond and tree. A thunderstorm brings practical guidance about sheltering among safer trees, while Mother Bear warns that lightning and men with guns are the true dangers. As seasons turn, Twinkly grows bolder: he’s misled by a jay toward squirrel nests, then braves a bee tree for honey, gets badly stung, falls, and cools the swelling with clay before dozing off satisfied. He spies the secretive Cottontail clan (and later their moonlit “bunny ball”), tries to ambush a rabbit but falls asleep, and narrowly evades a fox alert. A meeting with a farm boy ends with Twinkly stealing a trout and outwitting an attempted treetop capture, while Mother Bear coolly teaches new cubs to fish. Further episodes include mistaking a wasp nest for a bee trove despite a porcupine’s warning and a young lynx learning the hard way why porcupine quills demand respect. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77049,908,'Reading ease score: 80.6 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77049,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77049,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77049,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77050,520,'"Does civilization need religion? :  A study in the social resources and…." by Reinhold Niebuhr is a treatise on religion and society written in the early 20th century. It examines whether and how religion can sustain personality, supply moral energy, and guide social life in a mechanized, secular age shaped by science and industrialism. The work argues that religion’s metaphysical plausibility and its social efficacy are both under pressure, yet it may still offer indispensable resources for ethical reconstruction.  The opening of the treatise diagnoses religion’s waning influence in modern urban-industrial life, noting that science challenges a personalized universe while impersonal economic systems corrode respect for persons. It contrasts frantic orthodoxy and accommodating liberalism, arguing that the urgent crisis is not intellectual alone but moral: religion’s failure to make civilization ethical alienates especially the working classes. The author then sketches religion’s positive resources—reverence for personality, the courage to love and forgive beyond what reason alone sustains, humility before absolute standards, and a motive stronger than determinist cynicism—for building a just society. He critiques middle-class and urban forms of faith for private rectitude without social imagination, and traces how historic compromises made religion conservative (e.g., Protestantism’s ties to nationalism and commerce) while Catholicism at times exerted stricter social ethics. Finally, he contrasts medieval monastic rigor, Catholic economic restraints, and papal universalism with Protestant secularization and Puritan discipline, showing how virtues of industry and thrift slid into sanctified wealth and power, narrowing love of neighbor and oversimplifying ethics at the very point where modern society most needs depth. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77050,908,'Reading ease score: 30.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77050,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77050,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77050,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77051,520,'"The defender" by Nicholas Kalashnikoff is a children''s novel written in the mid-20th century. Set in the mountains of northeastern Siberia, it follows Turgen, a Lamut healer and hunter who becomes guardian of a herd of wild mountain rams while facing village superstition and the hazards of the tundra. His circle widens to include the widow Marfa, her children Tim and Aksa, and a fallen lamb he rescues, as he seeks harmony between people and the wild.  The opening of this novel frames the tale as one told to the narrator by Yakut Tim about his Lamut stepfather Turgen, a solitary healer shunned after a shaman’s “visions” and village gossip claim he consorts with rams and devils. Turgen befriends the poor widow Marfa and her children, trades food for milk, and turns his loneliness into a mission: hauling hay to the crags to feed a small herd until they accept his presence; he even scares off a bear and watches their leader repel wolves. He dreams of the Great Spirit’s approval, then, when gunshots panic the herd and a lamb falls from a rock bridge, he doctors the lamb—Lad—at home, despite fresh rumors stirred by a drunkard who sees it. Once healed, Lad is returned to his grateful family, and another dream emboldens Turgen to ask Marfa to join lives; she agrees, and the children visit his mountain hut as he resolves to protect the rams under the local one-hunter custom. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77051,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Defender_(Kalashnikoff_novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77051,908,'Reading ease score: 81.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77051,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77051,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77051,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77051,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77052,520,'"An idea that saved a business by Leonard Dreyfuss" is a short business pamphlet and advertising case study from the early 20th century. It centers on the power of outdoor advertising—especially posters and painted signs—to reach all kinds of people and stimulate rapid retail growth.  The narrative follows a worried department-store general manager who studies his failing numbers, then seeks advice from a circus executive famed for getting “the greatest amount of money in the shortest possible time.” He learns that the circus wins by blanketing the outdoors with large, colorful, simple messages placed wherever people pass. Adopting this approach, he launches a dominant citywide poster campaign with monthly changes in copy and color, while simultaneously improving store service and atmosphere. Over several years the store’s business surges, and the now-president credits outdoor publicity—used alongside heavy newspaper advertising—as the catalyst for momentum and prestige. The piece closes by asserting the story’s truth and segueing into a brief pitch for the sponsoring advertising firm’s services. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77052,908,'Reading ease score: 52.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77052,695);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77053,520,'En marge des marées by Joseph Conrad is a collection of short stories written in the early 20th century. The volume gathers sea-shadowed tales of moral ambiguity and psychological tension; its opening story follows Geoffrey Renouard, a solitary planter on the island of Malata, drawn into the refined yet urgent quest of Professor Moorsom and his daughter Felicia for a vanished man. Expect atmosphere, restrained passion, and a steady pull between romance and stark reality.  The opening of the collection presents a translator’s note on the French title and an author’s note in which Conrad defends these “tales” as a romance of reality, explaining his methods and responding to critics of The Planter of Malata. The narrative then begins in a colonial city: Renouard, back from Malata, tells a journalist about a dinner at the Dunsters where he met the distinguished Professor Moorsom, his white‑haired sister, and the striking Felicia, who questions him about wanderers and colonial lives; he is quietly overwhelmed by her presence. The editor supplies the backstory: Felicia seeks her former fiancé, Arthur, who fled after a financial scandal, later proved innocent; the family has arrived incognito to find him, relying on the press, police notices, and a letter waiting poste restante that remains unclaimed. As Renouard visits the Dunsters, he falls into a contained, jealous longing, dreams obsessively of Felicia, and maintains a controlled, respectful silence; he aids their councils even as the professor weighs ending the wait to resume commitments, leaving the search—and Renouard’s inward crisis—poised to intensify. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77053,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%27Twixt_Land_and_Sea https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/En_marge_des_mar%C3%A9es',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77053,908,'Reading ease score: 73.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77053,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77053,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77054,520,'"Chambers''s Journal of Popular Literature, Science, and Art, fifth series, no.…" by R. Chambers (Secundus) is a Victorian-era periodical issue—a wide-ranging miscellany of popular essays, reportage, and fiction from the late 19th century. The number surveys theatrical stagecraft, crime and smuggling lore, industrial advances, agricultural trials, current scientific notes, and closes with poetry and editorial notices.  The contents open with a vivid tour of backstage mechanics—from multi-level trapwork and lightning scene-changes to ingenious illusions in Parisian spectacles, sea-and-fire effects, and the craft behind them. A serialized melodrama reaches its climax with a fatal riverside struggle, a widow’s heartbreak, and a quiet country wedding, before closing on reconciliations and new vows. A long feature on diamond-smuggling traces ruses from Poe-like “hiding in plain sight” to hollow teeth, baby rattles, rosary beads, and carrier pigeons, then turns to theft and reset at Kimberley and the saga of the Orloff diamond. “Doubleworks,” an Athlone barracks tale, recounts a night alarm when a half-witted hanger-on, locked in the dead-house, terrifies a sentry and loses his reason. Industry pieces highlight the Baku oil “spouters,” bulk transport and fuel uses, and their challenge to American oil and Scottish shale; and review Scotland’s past and present experiments in tobacco-growing. “The Month” gathers notes on Japanese sulphur baths, house-fire risks from bad flues, Pasteur’s hydrophobia results, petroleum engines, waste dye liquors turned to ink, a hardy golden carp, safer electric lamps, a global photographic star map, technical training, small-arms trials, dynamite cruisers, microphones for water leaks, new steam-valves, and a Scottish petroleum spring. Occasional notes touch infant feeding with finely milled farinaceous additions to milk, wood-pulp building ornaments, and long-distance electric power; a closing lyric, “Sweet Day of Days,” offers a gentle reverie. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77054,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chambers%27s_Edinburgh_Journal',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77054,908,'Reading ease score: 53.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77054,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77055,520,'"The wilderness by Amy E. Mack" is a lyrical nature essay written in the early 20th century. Set in a suburban Australian patch of reclaimed garden now overrun by native bush, it celebrates urban wildness—its plants, birds, insects, and nocturnal animals—and argues for the quiet riches of leaving small sanctuaries where nature can thrive.  The narrator lovingly traces the seasons in this bush-girt haven: fruit trees mingling with wattles, mistletoe, native cherry, and a beloved white cedar that invites birds to feast and sing. By day the place hums with life—cicadas, butterflies, dragonflies, ants, spiders—and a dazzling array of birds, from bright parrots and honeyeaters to butcher-birds, thrushes, cuckoos, and the gentle mistletoe-bird. At night bandicoots rustle, ring-tailed and big possums travel the treetops, and owls and mopokes hunt in silence, while after rain the creek swells and a comic, exuberant chorus of frogs begins. The piece closes as a quiet plea for keeping such patches wild, showing how even a small refuge in a suburb can shelter a rich, intimate world of living things. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77055,908,'Reading ease score: 64.3 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77055,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77055,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77055,685);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77056,520,'"The dream detective" by Sax Rohmer is a collection of detective stories written in the early 20th century. It follows the eccentric, occult-leaning sleuth Moris Klaw and his sharp-witted daughter Isis as they unravel uncanny crimes often tied to museums, relics, and legends, accompanied by a skeptical inspector and a journalist-biographer. Expect locked-room puzzles, exotic lore, and audacious disguises.  The opening of this collection presents two complete cases and the start of a third. First, a night watchman dies in a locked gallery at the Menzies Museum; Klaw’s “dream” method and keen observation reveal a booby‑trapped “Athenean Harp” that lethally pricks whoever lifts it after it has been played, and the culprit proves to be the curator’s sleepwalking daughter unknowingly setting events in motion. Next, an Egyptian potsherd coveted by a suave new neighbor leads to eerie séances and a daring theft; the twist shows that “Doctor Zeda” and the phantom singer were Klaw in disguise and Isis, retrieving the artifact as a matter of poetic justice. The third tale opens with Klaw and allies called to Crespie Hall, where a new owner is found slain by a crusader’s ax in the old banqueting hall, setting the stage for another impossible‑seeming mystery. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77056,908,'Reading ease score: 72.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77056,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77056,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77056,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77057,520,'"Hirviherrat :  Kolminäytöksinen huvinäytelmä" by Kl. U. Suomela is a stage comedy written in the early 20th century. Set around a moose hunt in rural Finland, it satirizes city swagger and country shrewdness through flirtations, fibs, and mishaps as landowner Joonas Isomaa, his daughter Inkeri, crofter family Miina–Vihto–Urho, and the Helsinki beer-merchant Kalle Maljanen with his foppish son Santeri cross paths. The likely focus is a farcical rivalry for Inkeri’s hand, a tangle of missing guns and tall tales, and a mock-heroic hunt that exposes pretensions and tests character.  The opening of the play finds morning bustle at the Junnila croft: Miina manages chores, Urho tends his rifle, and Vihto grumbles awake as townsmen arrive to hunt. Santeri hilariously mistakes the household rooster for a trophy bird and begs to hide the blunder before the party—nimismies (sheriff), constable, and Isomaa—file in for coffee, wartime news, and gossip. A letter brings Siina sudden hope of a rich American half-brother’s return, only for the newspaper to hint he may have perished at sea; Kalle immediately begins courting the newly “heiress” widow, while Inkeri quietly disarms the Maljanens by hiding the father’s gun and removing the bullet from Santeri’s. At the start of Act II on Korpimäki, Inkeri and Urho reveal their mutual affection and stage a test of Santeri’s courage: she spooks him with a tale of a local brute, and Urho bursts in as the supposed menace, just as Santeri is trying to posture as her fearless protector. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77057,908,'Reading ease score: 58.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77057,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77057,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77058,520,'"The historians'' history of the world in twenty-five volumes, volume 11…" by Henry Smith Williams is a historical compendium written in the early 20th century. This volume surveys the history of France from the later Carolingians to the death of Louis XIV, blending political narrative with religious, social, and cultural developments as distilled from numerous classic authorities.  The opening of the volume recounts the collapse of Carolingian power under relentless Northmen raids and internal strife, portraying Charles the Bald’s weakness, the ferocity and tactics of the Vikings, and the famed pirate Hastings. It explains how the Edict of Mersen and the capitulary of Quierzy hastened the transformation of benefices into hereditary fiefs, birthing the feudal order and proliferating private castles. The siege of Paris (885–886) highlights civic resilience under Bishop Gozlin and Count Eudes against a vast Viking host, contrasted with imperial impotence, and foreshadows the rise of the Capetians. The narrative then traces Rollo’s investiture in Normandy, the fragmentation of royal authority, and the power plays of Robert, Rudolf, Héribert, and Hugh the Great, through Louis IV and Lothair, to the election of Hugh Capet and his early struggles with Charles of Lorraine—depicting a France where noble power eclipses the crown and the church often arbiters the realm. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77058,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Historians%27_History_of_the_World',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77058,908,'Reading ease score: 57.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77058,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77058,660);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77058,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77058,664);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77059,520,'"Illustrations of taxation" by Harriet Martineau is a collection of didactic tales written in the early 19th century. It uses lively domestic and rural scenes to show how taxes, rents, and game laws press on everyday people, beginning with the return of the Cranston heirs to their long-shuttered estate and the frictions that follow between landowners, tradespeople, and poachers. Central figures include the Cranston siblings—Richard, James, Wallace, and Fanny—alongside the horse-dealer Swallow, his identical twin daughters Anne and Sarah, and the ever-calculating assessor, Mr. Taplin.  The opening of the first tale, The Park and the Paddock, follows the Cranstons as they break into their sealed house at Fellbrow, survey its desolation (owl, cobwebs, and a grim cat-and-rat relic), and set about repairs while hearing warnings of poaching. In town, Fanny’s valet meets gossiping shopkeepers whose complaints about hair-powder, rents, and house-duty introduce the book’s tax theme, while the assessor eyes the new family’s dogs, carriages, and windows. At the Paddock, Swallow hurriedly loads a van with suspect “packages” as the huntsman and then the assessor arrive, and his twin daughters—Anne and the sharper Sarah—come into view. James, a clergyman and sportsman, flirts with the twins between funerals and house-hunting, lunches with a farmer who explains the ruinous cost of game on crops and the quiet league with poachers, and debates the injustices of the land-tax. As James keeps visiting to find Fanny a horse, Sarah displaces Anne in his favor; learning of a planned night expedition, she tries to warn him off, while the Paddock readies drink, pipes, and sawdust for what looks like a poaching night and James urges his brother to act. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77059,908,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77059,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77059,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77059,696);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77060,520,'"The autobiography of a seaman (volume 1 of 2)" by Earl of Thomas Cochrane Dundonald is a naval autobiography written in the mid-19th century. It charts the celebrated but contentious career of a British admiral known for daring operations, outspoken reformism, and political battles, set chiefly against the backdrop of the Napoleonic wars. This first volume focuses on his early life, family background, formative service, and the lead-up to the celebrated but disputed action at Aix Roads, alongside his criticisms of naval administration.  The opening of the work presents a dedication to the Westminster electors and a forthright preface outlining its scope: service up to the Basque Roads attack, the ensuing court-martial of Lord Gambier, years of exclusion from command, and eventual restorations of rank and honours. Cochrane thanks prominent supporters (notably the Marquis of Lansdowne and Lord Brougham) and credits his wife’s direct appeal to the sovereign for a key turn in his fate, then states a “moral” about the personal costs of truth-telling and reform. An introductory chapter traces the Dundonald lineage—from medieval Cochranes and the rise and fall of Robert Cochran under James III, through staunch Stuart loyalties, civil-war entanglements, and the family’s elevation—before turning to the author’s own beginnings. Chapter I sketches his 1775 birth, the loss of ancestral estates, and his father’s scientific ventures (soda, alumina, British gum, sal ammoniac, white lead, and coal-tar/coke), including an early, accidental demonstration of coal-gas illumination later developed by others; these pursuits, though inventive, ruined the family finances and delayed his entry into the navy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77060,908,'Reading ease score: 53.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77060,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77060,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77060,665);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77060,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77061,520,'"Nausica :  Tragedia en tres actes treta de l''Odissea d''Homer" by Joan Maragall is a play written in the early 20th century. This lyrical tragedy revisits the Odyssey’s Phaeacian episode, centering on the young princess Nausica and a shipwrecked hero whose arrival tests hospitality, piety, and desire. It follows Nausica, Ulisses, King Alcinous, the queen, and the court poet Daimó in a poised blend of myth, music, and moral debate.  The opening of the play shows Nausica by the river with her companions, restless after a storm and stirred by a dream of marriage; she imagines a hero and then meets the naked, battered Ulisses, whom she aids and discreetly directs toward the city. At a palace feast, courtiers argue over libations, the queen announces the stranger, and the king extends sacred hospitality; Daimó’s song of Troy moves the guest to tears. In private, he reveals himself as Ulisses and recounts trials like the Sirens and the descent to the underworld, while Nausica’s admiration intensifies. At dawn in the port, fishermen and sailors ready a ship as Dimant explains the oracle and Poseidon’s anger, and Nausica confides to Daimó her trembling fascination before the departure is set in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77061,500,'https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nausica_(Joan_Maragall)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77061,908,'Reading ease score: 72.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77061,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77061,646);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77062,520,'"La vérité sur le prétendu Silphion de la Cyrénaïque :  ("Silphium cyrenaicum",…" by F. Herincq is a scientific pamphlet written in the late 19th century. It is a botanical and therapeutic critique that challenges the identification of a modern plant from Cyrenaica as the famed silphion of antiquity, and questions the medical claims attached to it.  The work dismantles the claim that the so‑called Silphium cyrenaicum equals the ancient silphion, demonstrating instead—through seed, leaf, root, and anatomical comparisons with herbarium specimens and literature (Viviani, de Candolle)—that it is simply Thapsia garganica. Field evidence from M. Daveau’s expedition to Cyrenaica confirms the match and refutes assertions about “tracing” roots and universal seed destruction. The book contrasts ancient descriptions (parsley‑like leaves, edible parts, culinary use) with the modern plant’s vesicant, dangerous resin, and rejects coin imagery as unreliable for species diagnosis. It also scrutinizes promotional medical claims (phthisis, meningitis, etc.), reproducing a decisive letter from Dr Chartier denying therapeutic benefit and noting failures and risks. An appendix critiques contemporary brochures and clarifies sources, ending with the firm conclusion that the celebrated silphion remains lost while the marketed substance is merely Thapsia garganica. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77062,908,'Reading ease score: 54.7 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77062,669);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77062,682);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77063,520,'"William Shakspere and Robert Greene : the evidence" by William Hall Chapman is a literary study written in the early 20th century. It reconsiders Elizabethan literary history and the Shakespeare canon by stripping away later traditions and conjectures, arguing from documents rather than “aesthetic” myth-making. Central to its case is the claim that Robert Greene’s famous “upstart crow” barb targeted the clown William Kemp, not Shakespeare, alongside a broader rehabilitation of Greene’s character and work. The study also probes the Elizabethan stage economy and questions familiar assumptions about Shakespeare’s life and authorship.  The opening of the book lays out this revisionist aim, then closely examines Greene’s deathbed letter appended to “Greene’s Groatsworth of Wit,” arguing that “Shake-scene” meant a dance-scene and fits the celebrated clown-dancer William Kemp; it supports this with a compact (but vivid) dossier on Kemp’s career, notoriety, and improvisatory “jigs.” It reads “upstart crow” and “Tyger’s heart wrapt in a Player’s hide” within Elizabethan idiom, rejects Shakespearean authorship inferences from “bombast out a blanke verse,” and contends the line in Henry VI echoes Greene’s own phrasing. The text defends Greene against charges of envy and dissoluteness, praises his clean prose romances and democratic sympathies, doubts the authenticity of several posthumous pamphlets, and recasts Henry Chettle’s “Kind-Heart’s Dream” apology as aimed at Marlowe/Nashe/Peele rather than Shakespeare. It then begins a sober sketch of Shakespeare’s early life based on records—his father’s rise and decline, uncertain schooling, and a pressured, irregular marriage—underscoring how little firm evidence supports the standard biography. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77063,908,'Reading ease score: 52.1 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77063,657);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77063,661);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77064,520,'"Wood Cottage : or, Sheltered at last" by M. E. Drewsen is a children''s Christian novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on a lost London girl, Kit, and her devoted cousin Ben, who are taken into the loving home of the Grays at Wood Cottage, where faith, kindness, and everyday trials shape their new life. The story blends homely scenes with moral instruction, following the children’s growth, school challenges, and the gentle influence of charitable neighbors.  The opening of Wood Cottage : or, Sheltered at last introduces Kit—newly found by her parents during a Sunday-school outing—and Ben, the poor but steadfast cousin who kept her alive by selling matches. Welcomed into Wood Cottage, they are clothed, fed, and tenderly guided, offering simple prayers, singing hymns, and forming habits of gratitude. Ben starts school, struggles with teasing from Jim Snow, briefly loses his temper, then repents, makes amends, and resolves to be a “brave little soldier” for Jesus. A stormy outing leads to the perambulator’s disappearance—moved by Jim for mischief—only for Ben to recover it and, when Jim is injured, magnanimously wheel his tormentor home. The children also befriend the Craigs; with Mrs. Frankham’s help, the sick son John finds peace in Christ before dying, and the families grow close, even sharing a seaside holiday where Kit’s quick temper briefly flares and is swiftly mended. A year later, Ben is working responsibly, a new baby has arrived, the father is recovering from an accident, and Kit gets into trouble for disobeying about lifting her little brother—ending the excerpt with her tearful prayer for forgiveness. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77064,908,'Reading ease score: 83.4 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77064,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77064,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77064,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77065,520,'"The barbarous babes: Being the memoirs of Molly" by Edith Ayrton Zangwill is a children’s novel written in the early 20th century. Told in a lively first-person voice, it follows Molly and her siblings—Humphrey, Violet, and Teddy—through a string of misadventures born of fierce imaginations, pranks, and earnest but misguided attempts at virtue. Family life with their governess, visiting relatives, and an often-absent mother frames comic scrapes that turn into gentle moral lessons.  The opening of this novel introduces a series of vivid episodes: Molly and Humphrey’s “torturing games” spiral into a mock martyrdom that nearly ends in disaster; jealousy of a visiting cousin’s curls leads Molly to cut them off in a Samson-and-Delilah prank; shy Violet, misreading a remark, bravely pays a formal call alone and causes social consternation; their mother must leave for her health, and Teddy tries to stow away before later being whipped for sweeping a chimney in play; Molly’s zeal to “missionary” her siblings culminates in an insulting bathroom placard that offends a visiting German musician until Humphrey mends matters; and, at last, the children’s chaotic home theatricals are rescued by their mother’s unexpected return, which steadies the household and brings the first performances off happily. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77065,908,'Reading ease score: 78.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77065,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77065,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77065,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77065,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77066,520,'"The evolution of the oil industry" by Victor Ross is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It charts how petroleum progressed from ancient curiosity to a globally organized, technology-driven industry, highlighting the United States’ pioneering role, standardization, and the systems that made oil vital in peace and war. Expect clear explanations of origins and geology, early Pennsylvania breakthroughs and figures like Edwin L. Drake, global fields, drilling and pipelines, refining, and the industry’s economic and social reach.  The opening of this volume sets the tone with a preface arguing that petroleum enabled a new industrial “order,” reducing waste through standardized production and organization, with the U.S. leading and benefiting society broadly. It then surveys oil in history and legend—from biblical and classical references to Baku fire temples, Asian practices, Native American use, and George Washington’s remarks—before explaining what petroleum is, competing origin theories, geological migration, natural gas, gushers, and the diversity of crudes. The narrative turns to America’s beginnings: salt-brine drilling that revealed oil, Kier’s “rock oil,” Bissell’s vision, and Drake’s 1859 Titusville well, followed by booms like Pithole. A global overview follows (Russia, Roumania, Galicia, British imperial fields, Dutch East Indies, Japan, Mexico, Peru) and the rise of U.S. dominance across Pennsylvania, California, Oklahoma, and Texas. Practical chapters outline how geologists locate pools, how wells are drilled (cable-tool and rotary), “shooted” with nitroglycerin, and pumped, along with costs and risks. Finally, it explains early collection and storage, the shift from river barges and wagon caravans to pipelines, the teamsters’ resistance, and the large-scale, efficiently organized pipe-line systems that transformed transport—where the excerpt ends mid-discussion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77066,908,'Reading ease score: 40.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77066,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77066,656);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77066,671);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77066,670);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77067,520,'"Old World Masters in New World Collections" by Esther Singleton is an illustrated art history survey and catalogue written in the early 20th century. It documents European Old Master paintings that entered American private collections, blending brief school overviews with focused entries on individual works, their provenance, former owners, and aesthetic qualities. The volume foregrounds beauty, downplays martyrdom and violence, and underscores the roles of prominent collectors and dealers—especially Sir Joseph Duveen—in shaping America as a new repository of masterpieces.  The opening of this volume presents a preface asserting the book’s novelty and scope, crediting American collectors and Duveen’s influence, listing celebrated works with illustrious provenances, arguing for the superior selectiveness of American collections, and declaring a “Beauty”-driven selection while noting extraordinary valuations. It then outlines the contents by national schools and begins with a clear, contextual primer on Sienese painting as a refined Gothic offshoot with Byzantine and possible Oriental affinities. Early entries describe Sassetta’s St. Francis scenes, Matteo di Giovanni’s brocaded Madonna, and Benvenuto di Giovanni’s lively Adoration, each with vivid formal analysis and ownership history. A broader Florentine survey follows—linking Cimabue, Giotto, guilds, and Medici patronage to the Renaissance—before concise entries on a Giotto Madonna, Masolino’s architectural Annunciation, Fra Angelico’s angel and Virgin diptych and a Cosmas-and-Damianus predella scene, and a Fra Filippo Lippi Madonna, all characterized by precise iconography, technique, and provenance. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77067,908,'Reading ease score: 55.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77067,675);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77068,520,'"Sinun kansasi on minun kansasi! : Avioliittotarina eteläjyllannista" by Laura Kieler is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set amid the Danish–German tensions in South Jutland, it appears to follow Danish farming families whose loyalties, livelihoods, and affections are tested under Prussian rule. The story centers on Karen, her spirited brother Esben, and their steady cousin Valdemar, with a provocative German newcomer disrupting both community pride and an expected match. The likely theme is a marriage entangled with questions of identity, language, and belonging.  The opening of the novel frames the political and cultural background with a translator’s note and a prefatory overview of Schleswig’s history, Germanization policies, and the precarious status of “optants,” then moves into 1894 harvest scenes on Danish farms. We meet Esben (“Nopsa”), Karen, and Valdemar amid songs, playful camaraderie, and quiet resolve, which are jarred by the appearance of a German buyer, Ruprecht Jürgens, singing Lorelei and openly pursuing Karen. Community debate over a forced auction and the sale of Danish land to a German shows simmering anger and the call for mutual support, while domestic scenes at Højemarke introduce the stalwart matriarch, the old servant Sidsel, and friend Gyrithe. Small acts become political: a lighthearted song leads to a visit from the gendarme and an absurd interrogation, underlining how everyday Danish life, language, and love are policed from the very first chapters. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77068,908,'Reading ease score: 45.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77068,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77068,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77069,520,'"Murder in the Gilded Cage" by Samuel Spewack is a detective novel written in the early 20th century. It follows a reporter-turned-press agent who is drawn into the scandalous orbit of wealthy divorcée Dora Breese, her idle suitor Guy Thomas, her children, and her steadfast ally Gordon Rice, as a yacht trip to Havana ends in a high-society murder. The investigation pulls in Ben Smith, an American detective in Havana, and Boris Perutkin, a formidable Russian sleuth with an old case that unexpectedly overlaps this circle.  The opening of the novel presents the narrator’s promise to tell the unvarnished truth of Mrs. Breese’s death, then sketches the sensational divorce that made her famous and the delicate triangle with actor Guy Thomas. Hired as her press agent, the narrator sails on her yacht with Rice and the two Breese children; tension spikes when Dora impulsively announces her engagement to Guy, Henry Jr. stages a shocking overboard plunge that Rice heroically thwarts, and that night the narrator spies Guy dumping cartridges from a pearl-handled revolver into the sea. In Havana, the narrator meets Ben Smith and the imposing Perutkin, who links this group to an unsolved Riga murder involving the Countess’s former husband, while Henry Breese Sr. quietly arrives in the city. Soon after, Dora is found shot through the heart in her opulent “Gilded Cage”; no weapon is found, the windows are locked, no shot was heard, and Guy claims he was upstairs when the butler discovered the body. Rice bursts in to accuse Guy, brandishing telegrams about a chorus-girl fiancée, talk of sudden wealth, and a check the bank deemed a forgery—setting the stage for the inquiry to begin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77069,908,'Reading ease score: 80.1 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77069,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77069,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77069,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77070,520,'"The mid of the maintop by Arthur Lee Knight" is a juvenile naval adventure story from the late 19th century Victorian era. Set during British anti-slavery patrols off East Africa, it centers on courage, seamanship, and duty as a frigate’s crew hunts slavers and faces peril ashore and afloat.  The story opens with H.M.S. Forte in a storm, where midshipman Jack Villiers is swept overboard and presumed dead. Later, a cutter under young Thring discovers a dhow in the Joo-joo river and, after a rough boarding fight, learns Jack is alive but carried inland by Arab slavers. The frigate launches a naval brigade that storms a fortified village ruled by Sooltan Shah, blasting the gate and fighting hand-to-hand while their officer is wounded. Meanwhile, Jack frees himself by cunning, tunnels out of his hut, hides in a tree, and escapes by canoe downriver. He reunites with the boats as the force withdraws, and the tale closes on fellowship restored after brisk action, narrow escapes, and the disruption of the slavers’ trade. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77070,908,'Reading ease score: 64.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77070,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77070,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77070,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77070,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77070,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77071,520,'"The exploration of Tibesti, Erdi, Borkou, and Ennedi in 1912-1917: a mission…" by Lieut.-Colonel Jean Tilho is a geographical expedition report and lecture written in the early 20th century. It documents a French mission in Central Saharan Africa that combined scientific surveying with military operations. The central question is whether Lake Chad ever connected to the Nile via the Bahr el Ghazal depression, set against detailed accounts of routes, oases, climate, terrain, and local peoples during Senoussist unrest and wartime pressures. Expect systematic observation, maps, and logistical realities rather than a narrative travelogue.  The opening of this work lays out the mission’s aim, Tilho’s background and route into the Lake Chad region, and the 1912–1913 campaign that seized key Senoussist strongholds at Ain Galakka, Faya, Gouro, and Ounianga. It explains why taking Borkou mattered strategically during the broader Turco‑German–Senoussist push, then sketches four demanding years of holding the oasis network. Tilho offers vivid, practical portraits of Kanem, Borkou, and Ounianga—their water, winds, heat, soils, crops (chiefly dates), pests, and trade in salt and dates—before pushing east to the Tekro and Sarra wells on the Koufra route and recounting a perilous return guided only by compass. He advances through Dimi into the little‑known plateaux of Erdi, mapping water points and altitudes, and then crosses a broad depression to Ennedi, where measurements lead him to conclude the Chad basin is a closed system, not linked to the Nile. The narrative then surveys Ennedi’s terraced sandstone plateaux, seasonal wadis, natural cisterns, rich pastures, sparse, raiding-prone tribes, and the spectacular valleys of Archeï, followed by reconnaissance west into Mortcha’s wadis and the ancient lake zones. With the Great War’s “holy war” agitation inflaming raids, he describes French counter‑raids and then turns to Tibesti, outlining the plan, hazards, and a striking ascent of Emi Koussi’s vast crater before returning to regroup for further operations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77071,908,'Reading ease score: 44.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77071,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77071,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77071,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77071,665);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77072,520,'"Las aventuras de Telémaco seguidas de las de Aristonoo" by Fénelon is a didactic novel written in the late 17th century. Shaped as a continuation of Homer’s world, it follows Telemachus, guided by Minerva in the guise of Mentor, on a moral and political education through perilous voyages that test his character. The narrative blends adventure with counsel on wise kingship, temperance, and justice, often contrasting tyranny with humane rule.  The opening of the work presents transcription notes, a translator’s preface, and a substantial biographical essay that situates Fénelon’s life, his clash with Bossuet, his role as tutor to a prince, and the political aims of the narrative. Book I then shifts into the story: Calypso, grieving for Ulysses, welcomes shipwrecked Telemachus and his guide Mentor; amid idyllic settings, songs, and banquet, she tries to keep the youth by offering happiness and hints of immortality, while Mentor warns against seductive ease. Pressed to speak, Telemachus recounts visits to Pylos and Sparta, a reckless voyage toward Sicily, a storm that throws him near Aeneas’s fleet, near-sacrifice by Acestes’s people, and Mentor’s prophetic aid in repelling invading barbarians, after which they receive a ship. Book II relates their capture by an Egyptian squadron enforcing Sesostris’s maritime power, a vivid tour of Egypt’s prosperity under just governance, the separation of Mentor by a corrupt minister, and Telemachus’s exile as a shepherd in the Oasis desert, where a divine voice steels him to endure and grow in wisdom—the point at which the excerpt breaks off. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77072,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_Aventures_de_T%C3%A9l%C3%A9maque https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Las_aventuras_de_Tel%C3%A9maco',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77072,908,'Reading ease score: 36.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77072,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77072,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77072,652);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77072,646);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77072,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77073,520,'"Die Flucht der Beate Hoyermann :  Roman" by Thea von Harbou is a novel written in the early 20th century. It likely blends travel adventure with espionage and wartime suspense, following Beate Hoyermann and her husband Gerhard as a carefree journey through Japan turns into a hazardous bid for escape under political suspicion and looming conflict. Themes of cultural encounter, natural catastrophe, and the creeping onset of war frame their peril.  The opening of the novel follows Beate through bustling Japanese streets to a hilltop temple, interweaving her and Gerhard’s world travels with sharp, curious observations of Africa, America, and Japan. Gerhard confides they are being shadowed by Japanese police; at the theater their friend Tystendal brings the shattering news of the Archduke’s assassination and hints at wider war. That night an earthquake and fire destroy the nearby city; Beate drags her distraught maid Yuki from the water as boats capsize in the blazing bay, and afterward they discover Gerhard’s papers have been rifled. Weeks of rain and a mysteriously absent ship delay their departure, until a German‑speaking stranger warns that the authorities suspect Gerhard as a spy and will quietly prevent their return to Europe, revealing a pervasive, efficient surveillance that now entangles them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77073,908,'Reading ease score: 80.5 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77073,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77073,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77073,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77073,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77073,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77074,520,'The Run by John Hay is a work of nature writing and natural history written in the mid-20th century. It explores the spring migration of alewives on Cape Cod, weaving close observation with ecology, local history, and culture. Guided by a reflective narrator and figures such as a blunt, protective herring warden, it portrays the fish’s sea-to-pond journey, its perils, and its long ties to human communities.  The opening of this work follows the narrator’s March vigil at Brewster’s Herring Run on Stony Brook, moving from raw “waiting weather” and a watchful muskrat to the first lone alewife and then the mass run. He introduces Harry Alexander, the warden, and shifts between scene and context: the anadromous life cycle, age and size patterns, and the fish’s historical place from Indigenous agriculture and Pilgrim survival to smokehouses, weirs, and today’s lobster-bait trade. Vivid set pieces show crowded ladders, fatal leaps at an impassable chute, and gulls thronging the valley, while chapters mix anatomy and senses with puzzling questions of homing, ocean whereabouts, and environmental cues. He traces the brackish plume at Paine’s Creek, witnesses night entries under gull-filled skies, then a brutal daylight hunt where hundreds of gulls intercept fish on the ebb, and concludes with the fish’s back-and-forth ascent at the estuary threshold as salt gives way to fresh. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77074,908,'Reading ease score: 65.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77074,683);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77074,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77075,520,'"Man''s supreme inheritance :  Conscious guidance and control in relation to…" by F. Matthias Alexander is a treatise on psychophysical education and health written in the early 20th century. It argues that modern civilization fosters maladaptive habits of use and that genuine well‑being depends on replacing subconscious reactions with conscious guidance and control of mind and body. The work critiques quick fixes—physical culture drills, relaxation, deep breathing, hypnotism, and faith‑healing—and proposes systematic re‑education to restore coordination and resilience. It extends these ideas to education, character, and social evolution.  The opening of this treatise sets its tone with a boatman’s weather metaphor to reject panaceas and promise careful, experience‑based guidance. The author frames an urgent response to modern physical deterioration and the limits of bacteriology, appealing to all readers while insisting that real progress requires eliminating specialized “cures” through personal understanding and effort. An introductory word by John Dewey praises the central thesis: our crisis stems from uncoordinated living, and the remedy is intelligent, positive, conscious control—not a return to nature or piecemeal fixes. The first chapters trace humanity’s shift from instinctive to civilised living, argue that we cannot go back, and call for conscious control to replace faulty subconscious guidance; they then critique “physical culture,” relaxation, and deep breathing (illustrated by a “John Doe” case and the harms of collapsed thoracic use), listing core problems like defective kinesthetic sense and inhibition. Subsequent sections redefine the subconscious (against “subliminal self” theories), emphasize inhibition, and reject hypnotism and faith‑healing as degrading or unreliable, advocating instead the quickening of the conscious mind; a stammer case shows how inhibition and new guiding orders can re‑educate use. The final portion provided begins to apply these principles broadly—addressing temper, addiction, and even crime—arguing for gradual, reasoned re‑education to change points of view and restore normal sensory guidance, before the excerpt breaks off mid‑argument. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77075,908,'Reading ease score: 42.7 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77075,681);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77075,688);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77075,704);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77076,520,'"Classics of Modern Science (Copernicus to Pasteur)" by William S. Knickerbocker is a curated anthology of scientific writings written in the early 20th century. The volume gathers representative primary texts from foundational figures of modern science, framed for students and general readers to trace the rise of the scientific method and its civilizational impact. It emphasizes accessible language, the human qualities behind discovery, and the use of these classics to illuminate how scientific ideas were forged. The likely topic is the evolution of modern scientific thought from early method and astronomy through chemistry, biology, and medicine.  The opening of the anthology presents a preface arguing that the history of science is the real history of humankind, praising the scientific attitude (patience, humility, honesty), urging clear prose for lay readers, and positioning the book as a teaching reader. It then offers editorial headnotes and substantial excerpts: Francis Bacon’s Novum Organum passages critique dogmatism and skepticism, advocate a disciplined inductive method guided by “prerogative instances,” and outline practical modes of acting on nature to restore human “empire” through experiment. Copernicus’s introduction explains his dissatisfaction with Ptolemaic inconsistencies, defends heliocentrism, and argues for a spherical, moving earth (including daily rotation) to harmonize celestial phenomena. Kepler’s Epitome defines astronomy, situates it among the sciences, contrasts common-sense appearances with Copernican insight, and marshals lines of argument for Earth’s rotation. The Galileo dialogue then stages a debate on whether daily celestial motion belongs to the heavens or to Earth, favoring the Earth’s rotation while previewing further Copernican reasoning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77076,908,'Reading ease score: 39.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77076,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77076,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77076,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77077,520,'Collected Writings of Clarence Edwin Flynn by Clarence Edwin Flynn is a collection of essays written in the early 20th century. The volume gathers the Methodist minister’s journalism, sermons, addresses, and anecdotes on religion, ethics, literature, education, and civic life. It centers on moral uplift and practical wisdom, blending cultural commentary with Christian conviction in a clear, exhortative voice.  The opening of this collection presents an editor’s preface outlining Flynn’s life and byline attribution, the scope and method of compilation (writings through the late 1920s), and a categorized table of contents. It then moves from brief humorous vignettes to substantive cultural essays arguing that writers shape public opinion and history, reading the Washington Monument as a symbol of American virtues, mapping a “reconstruction” outlook for post-war literature, defending free verse, and showing how music mirrors an age; a practical piece on effective correspondence follows. A run of devotional and social-religious articles urges Sabbath reverence, interprets “light” and “yoke” as freedom and disciplined strength, reframes the Nativity as a parable of crowded hearts, links liberty to Calvary, argues the church’s distinct spiritual mission, sketches a “religion of the new age” that is practical, unified, and optimistic, explores the kinship of Christianity and American civic ideals, advocates personal evangelism, warns about the church’s tenuous hold on youth, and reads the empty tomb as proof of life’s triumph. The section closes mid-essay by inviting a “laboratory test” of faith grounded in lived experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77077,908,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77077,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77077,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77077,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77078,520,'"Saïd the fisherman" by Marmaduke William Pickthall is a novel written in the early 20th century. It appears to be a picaresque tale set in the eastern Mediterranean, following a poor but ambitious fisherman whose superstition, pride, and quick wits drive him from his coastal town into a string of risky encounters. Through Saïd’s brushes with Ottoman soldiers, crafty villagers, a mendicant, and a Christian missionary’s household, the story weighs luck against fate and pokes at human folly with sly humor. Expect vivid local color, moral ambiguity, and an anti-hero propelled as much by vanity as by need.  The opening of the novel shows Saïd losing the day’s earnings to galloping officers and then discovering his hidden savings stolen after his wife is lured out by a voice mimicking his friend Abdullah’s—who then “advises” him to flee and opportunistically claims Saïd’s home and gear. Saïd and his wife, Hasneh, set out; soldiers confiscate his donkey, he’s struck and humiliated, and on the road he learns from a beggar about a generous Frankish preacher, robs a camel-driver for ransom, and abandons the ailing Hasneh in a village, promising vaguely to send for her. Seeking the missionary’s help, he is chased off by a servant, sneaks back to steal a fine robe and fez, and escapes after the servant falls into a pit; dressed in his new finery, he bluffs his way into deference at a roadside khan. The section closes with Saïd basking in mistaken status as talk of soldiers and war stirs around him, setting the tone for a journey of gambles, imposture, and shifting fortune. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77078,908,'Reading ease score: 79.3 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77078,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77078,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77078,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77079,520,'"Kankurit :  5-näytöksinen näytelmä 1840-luvulta" by Gerhart Hauptmann is a play written in the late 19th century. Set among Silesian weavers in the 1840s, it portrays crushing poverty, factory exploitation, and the mounting pressure toward collective defiance. The drama contrasts the hard-nosed mill owner Dreisziger and his agent Pfeifer with weavers like Baumert, Bäcker, Reimann, Heiber, and Ansorge, along with their families.  The opening of the play unfolds in Dreisziger’s cloth-receiving room, where Pfeifer nitpicks faults, docks pay, and refuses advances as gaunt weavers wait in fear; Bäcker openly defies the boss, a starving child collapses, and Dreisziger delivers a self-justifying lecture before wages are cut further. At the start of the second act, in Ansorge’s squalid hut, the Baumert family weaves in exhaustion, a neighbor despairs of her nine children, and we learn they have even slaughtered their dog for food; ex-soldier Jäger arrives, drinks, and recites the fierce “Verituomio” verses that inflame their anger. The third act opens in a tavern, where townspeople argue over the weavers’ plight and the truth of official reports; Bäcker and Jäger enter with a crowd, bruised and singing the seditious song, and despite scoffing by others, the mood among the weavers hardens toward action. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77079,908,'Reading ease score: 52.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77079,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77079,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77080,520,'"Collected writings of Clarence Edwin Flynn, first series : 1929 and earlier" by Clarence Edwin Flynn is a collection of essays and articles written in the early 20th century. The anthology spans humorous vignettes, cultural commentary, and predominantly Christian addresses that advocate moral uplift, practical faith, and civic responsibility. Readers can expect reflections on literature, music, education, public life, and guidance for ministers and young people, all delivered in clear, persuasive prose.  The opening of this collection presents a transcriber’s note and a preface situating Flynn as a Methodist minister and broad-ranging periodical writer, explaining how the pieces were identified and arranged, followed by a categorized table of contents. It then moves from light humor (two street-scene anecdotes and a quip about a “modern grandmother”) into substantial essays: a call for writers to steward public opinion responsibly (invoking Grotius, Stowe, and Sinclair), meditations on the Washington Monument as a symbol of American fortitude and honesty, and postwar literary forecasts urging truthfulness and practical focus. Further pieces defend free verse as an ancient, legitimate form, read music as a mirror of historical spirit, and offer crisp counsel on effective business correspondence. A substantial religious section follows, diagnosing Sabbath decline and modern restlessness, praising “light” as truth and education, reframing Christ’s “yoke” as help rather than burden, urging room for Jesus amid busyness, and linking liberty to sacrifice. It defines the church’s spiritual core, sketches a practical, unified, optimistic “religion of the new age,” connects Christianity with American civic virtue, promotes personal evangelism, addresses youth with concrete remedies, and affirms resurrection hope—concluding mid-argument with a call to test faith by lived experience. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77080,908,'Reading ease score: 65.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77080,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77080,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77080,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77081,520,'"A sailor boy with Dewey :  or, Afloat in the Philippines" by Edward Stratemeyer is a juvenile adventure novel written in the late 19th century. It follows Oliver Raymond, a plucky American teenager bound for Manila who is shipwrecked in a typhoon and plunged into dangers among hostile islanders and warring forces as he struggles to reunite with friends and reach safety. Key figures include his loyal chum Dan Holbrook, the steady mate Tom Dawson, and the drunken, menacing Captain Kenny. Expect fast-paced nautical peril, jungle escapes, and the path toward Commodore Dewey’s campaign.  The opening of the story follows Oliver from a business-tinged “holiday” trip toward Manila aboard the schooner Dart to a violent hurricane, a collision with a Chinese vessel, and a desperate abandonment of ship in small boats that separates him from Dan. Oliver’s boat, led by second mate Watt Brown and burdened by the treacherous Captain Kenny, survives a brutal night at sea and reaches the Luzon coast; Dawson’s boat later appears, but Dan is feared drowned. While foraging and scouting, the survivors encounter grisly signs of local warfare, a giant bat attack, and the Dart stranded up the coast—only to be confronted by Tagal tribesmen who seize the wreck and capture the castaways. A lightning-splintered storm enables Oliver and Dawson to escape through a flooded forest, elude pursuit (and a cayman), glimpse a distant battle between Spanish troops and insurgents, link up with the Chinese cook Ah Sid, and ready a small boat to run for Subig Bay—just as unseen figures approach. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77081,908,'Reading ease score: 80.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77081,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77081,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77081,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77081,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77081,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77082,520,'The Russian road to China by Jr. Lindon Bates is a historical travel narrative written in the early 20th century. It traces the overland corridor from European Russia across Siberia and Mongolia to the Chinese frontier, blending on-the-spot travel with a sweeping history of Cossack conquest, caravan trade, and the coming of the Trans-Siberian Railway. The focus is the route’s geography, peoples, and politics—from the Urals and Lake Baikal to Urga, the Great Wall, and Peking. The tone mixes history, reportage, and geopolitical reflection.  The opening of this work first sketches the “path of the Cossack,” showing how the fur trade, the Stroganovs’ ventures, and Yermak’s campaigns opened Siberia and led to pledging the new realm to Ivan the Terrible, then follows the push east to Yakutsk and the Pacific, the treaties that closed and reopened trade, and the great tea caravans through Kiahta and Urga. It argues that railways and war shifted Russia’s access to China, with the Manchurian route crippled after conflict and the old Mongolian road holding future promise. Bates paints vivid scenes of Cossacks, settlers, Old Believers, Buriats, and Mongol lamas, and the stark contrasts of empire and steppe. The narrative then shifts aboard the Trans-Siberian: a wintry climb over the Urals, life in the dining car, a former political convict’s seven-year march, the vast monotony of the steppe, and stops that prompt tales of Omsk’s river web, Tomsk’s missed railway link, the great railway strike, exile to the Yakutsk, and the Crown’s “cabinetski” domains. It closes this beginning with the train nearing Irkutsk and Lake Baikal, promising a closer look at the city and the road ahead. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77082,908,'Reading ease score: 62.1 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77082,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77082,658);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77083,520,'"No ebook by that number." by No ebook by that number. is a wilderness short story written in the late 1920s. It centers on jealousy, courage, and fidelity during a hazardous canoe descent of northern rapids, where a quiet husband, his young wife, and a charming guest are forced into a decisive test.  The story follows Jean Baptiste Chabrier, who senses his wife Charlotte’s growing infatuation with their visitor, Les Walters. As they shoot the roaring rapids, Jean Baptiste deliberately engineers a capsize near the safer lower stretch to see whom Charlotte will turn to. In the water, she reaches for Les, who panics and strikes her away to save himself, leaving her to be swept downstream. Jean Baptiste then pulls her from the current and brings her ashore. The small cut on her cheek, made by Les’s ring, becomes a lasting reminder of his true character, and the “trial” proves both the wife’s divided heart and the suitor’s cowardice. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77083,908,'Reading ease score: 77.0 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77083,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77083,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77084,520,'"La peste gròga :  Pessa còmica-burlesca, composta d''afagitons bosquetjats del…" by Pere d''Alcàntara Penya i Nicolau is a comic-burlesque stage play written in the late 19th century. Set in Palma during the panic of the yellow fever scare of the early 1870s, it lampoons rumor, fear, and official overreaction. The likely topic is a satirical take on public hysteria, misinformation, and everyday opportunism during a supposed epidemic.  The one-act action unfolds on a city street as a cobbler (Mestre Cinto) and a coffee vendor (Ignaci) trade rumors about “the yellow plague,” while a shopkeeper (l’Amo ’n Pau), two doctors (Don Nadal and Don Tófol), and a city councilor (Pere-Antoni) move in and out. When a sack is delivered to the shopkeeper’s closed store, the gossips decide it hides an infected woman smuggled past the city gates. Authorities arrive, tensions rise, and suspicion peaks—until the supposed “pest” is revealed to be a gigantic yellow squash (carabassa) proudly produced for inspection. The farce ends with the busybodies chastened, and the play punctures the folly of credulity and the chaos that fear—rather than disease—can spread. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77084,908,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77084,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77084,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77085,520,'"Koti kulta :  Kaksinäytöksinen laulanäytelmä lapsille by Lauri Soini" is a two-act musical play for children written in the early 20th century. The play blends lively songs with a homely moral tale, focusing on charity, the temptations of roaming for treats, and the warmth and dignity of one’s own home during the winter and Laskiainen season.  The story begins in a poor cottage where Leena’s children, Lassi and Liisu, are enchanted by a jaunty mendicant boy, Marin Reitu, and beg to try “kerjuu” (begging). Their mother reluctantly lets them visit only the nearby farm, Vanhala. At the farm, amid banter with a jovial shoemaker and the gruff mistress Katri, the children boldly ask for festive food and sing a Laskiainen song; the master, Tahvo, feeds them and offers a little pork and bread. When two shivering vagrant children arrive and are turned away by Katri, Lassi and Liisu give them their own gifts—and Lassi even parts with his mother’s headscarf—prompting the shoemaker to reward Lassi with a coin and promise of apprenticeship. In the final scene, the children return home; Leena worries, then praises their kindness while gently reminding them to give only what is theirs. The play closes with a song exalting the comfort of home, underlining its themes of compassion, modesty, and the true riches of family. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77085,908,'Reading ease score: 54.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77085,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77085,636);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77086,520,'"Les cœurs les plus farouches" by James Oliver Curwood is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in the Canadian Arctic, it follows Sergeant William Mac Veigh of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police as a hunt for the fugitive Scottie Deane collides with themes of isolation, loyalty, and conflicting duties, especially after Mac Veigh encounters Isabelle, the outlaw’s devoted wife.  The opening of the novel shows Mac Veigh stationed at desolate Pointe Fullerton, caring for his companion Pelletier, who is unraveling from loneliness, and preparing a grueling sledge run to Fort Churchill for medicine and mail. After hearing of a mysterious white couple in the barrens, he ventures out and meets a young woman hauling a “coffin,” whom he aids and protects through a storm—only to learn at dawn that she is Isabelle Deane and the coffin was a ruse to shield her living husband, Scottie; they have taken his weapons and slipped away, leaving a note appealing to his compassion. A blizzard drives in a second pursuit party led by the hard, untrustworthy Bucky Smith; Mac Veigh misleads them, then secretly follows the trail alone, determined to outfox Bucky and safeguard the couple even as he tracks them. He reads the snow for signs of their passage—fires, brief rests, and difficult crossings—closing the distance until the chase reaches a treacherous slope where the terrain itself becomes perilous. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77086,908,'Reading ease score: 77.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77086,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77086,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77086,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77086,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77087,520,'"Kyläraittien kuningas : Satakuntalainen kertomus" by Kaarle Halme is a regional novel written in the early 20th century. It portrays early-19th-century village life in Satakunta—youth games, ritualized brawls, and strict honor codes—through the rise of Laikan Otto, a celebrated strongman from Loukkula. Key figures include the mild Parrilan Iisu, the spirited Anna of Kervilä, the jealous Hoijalan Esa, and the formidable Jarttu brothers, as rivalries, courtship, and community pride collide.  The opening of the novel sets the scene after Finland’s shift from Sweden to Russia, showing how a remote parish awakens to new energies: villages built close together, traditions of fist-only scuffles, and Loukkula’s sway over local order. We meet Otto, whose prowess forces him to hold back to preserve peace, until the Helka bonfire night when he wins a lively chase game beside a clay pit and later intervenes in a mass brawl, thwarting Esa’s stone attack on Jarttu Kalle and dispersing the crowd while imposing social penalties. As Midsummer nears, Anna and her friend Eeva prepare a secret cooking place, but a downpour ruins the festivities; meanwhile, Esa plots revenge with Kiepsa Apsa, blocking the loft door where Anna shelters. Otto turns up with the girls’ cooking gear amid the storm, and the scene closes with an uneasy sense that something is wrong. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77087,908,'Reading ease score: 45.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77087,635);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77087,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77088,520,'"Paul Harley''s dream by A. L. O. E." is a pair of short, didactic Christian tales for young readers, likely written in the Victorian era. Set around New Year’s, the book teaches repentance, gratitude, and trust in God through homely scenes and moral crises.  In the first story, a vain, irreverent boy named Paul scorns Sunday worship and dreams of angels casting him out; after he falls asleep in church, he is locked in overnight and nearly freezes. In his fear he truly prays for the first time, sings a hymn as a plea, and is rescued by James Barton, the very lad he had despised, which leads to confession, reconciliation, and a resolve to change. The second story follows poor Janet Jones, who grows bitter when her grandson Joseph’s first note brings no money for rent; her gentle granddaughter Annie copies the hymn “I gave My life for thee,” which convicts Janet of distrusting Christ’s love. The next morning a money order arrives—Joseph has sold his watch to help—proving both his affection and the lesson that real love gives, and faith should trust. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77088,908,'Reading ease score: 82.9 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77088,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77088,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77088,653);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77088,692);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77089,520,'"Stopping the leak" by Madeline Leslie is a moral domestic novel written in the mid-19th century. It traces how waste, dishonesty, and intemperance drain both fortune and character, and how shrewd, warm-hearted Aunt Mercy Lovell helps a naive young couple—Lily and Lawrence Everett—and the struggling Allen family learn economy, duty, and self-control.  The opening of the novel shows Aunt Mercy visiting the lavish Everett home and instantly sensing “a leak” in a household where careless spending and scheming servants flourish while Lily knows little of housekeeping. Her quiet reconnoissance exposes waste and theft, she counsels Lawrence, recounts her own youthful heartbreak that left her a guardian to his family, and then, after his ill-judged leniency, departs. The narrative shifts to Mary and Joseph Allen—kin to Lawrence—whose farm is lost to drink until a temperance pledge and Aunt Mercy’s aid set them to work, school, and thrift. When a business crisis looms for Lawrence, Aunt Mercy returns, catches the servants in a theft ring with a grocer, and has them arrested, while Lily begins learning practical economy. The excerpt closes with the reformed Allens modestly prospering—Joseph as head gardener, a cow and chickens secured, and children diligent at school and work, earning the goodwill of their employers. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77089,908,'Reading ease score: 73.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77089,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77089,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77090,520,'The pedigree of fascism : A popular essay on the Western philosophy of… by Aline Lion is a political-philosophical essay written in the early 20th century. It examines Italian Fascism as both a national outgrowth and a universal doctrine, setting it against the political history of post-unification Italy and the broader currents of European thought. The work aims to clarify for general readers what Fascism claims to be, how it arose, and why its philosophy should not simply be exported, while situating its roots from the Risorgimento and World War I to an intellectual lineage running from the Renaissance to Croce and Gentile.  The opening of the book asks whether Fascism is a revolution and answers by defining it as a new, immanent relation between State and citizen that rejects “natural rights,” binds rights to duties, and treats citizenship as a moral-spiritual practice. It contrasts universal ideas with their local, historical “form,” likens this to the French Revolution, and then surveys Italy’s political path: an elite-led Risorgimento that unified the state but ignored social and economic realities; a Liberalism that imported foreign models, mishandled Church-state tensions, and lacked party discipline; Socialism that awakened workers yet tilted toward materialist aims and coercive tactics; and Nationalism that was lofty but too external and statist. The narrative moves through Italy’s hesitant neutrality and irredentist push into World War I, arguing that the war (especially after Caporetto) forged a genuine national conscience, turning subjects into citizens—the true culmination of the Risorgimento—only for postwar disillusion, factory seizures, and Fiume to expose a hollow state. It concludes this opening movement by presenting Fascism as a practical, anti-ideological method that synthesizes class interests through duty-bound citizenship and order, then pivots to its philosophical pedigree, introducing Fascism’s aim-centered method, Gentile’s idea of liberty as the identification of wills (illustrated by a team captain), and the early modern roots of competing “realities” (Bruno’s historical, Bacon’s empirical, Descartes’ rational). (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77090,908,'Reading ease score: 41.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77090,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77090,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77090,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77090,662);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77090,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77091,520,'"Problems of the Libyan Desert" by John Ball is a scientific publication written in the early 20th century. It synthesizes exploration, surveying, and geology to explain the Libyan Desert’s great depressions, artesian waters, dunes, and rumored “lost” oases, while evaluating whether basins like Qattara and Wadi Rayan could be harnessed for irrigation, drainage, or power. The work also challenges persistent myths—most notably that a former Nile branch crossed the western desert—by using new contour mapping and hydrological reasoning.  The opening of the work lays out a dozen central questions about the region and explains how recent triangulation and improved barometric leveling enabled a first, provisional contoured map. It lists a chain of sub‑sea‑level basins culminating in the vast, newly confirmed Qattara Depression, outlines the major escarpments and highlands (Gilf Kebir, Oweinat, Kissu), and uses these data to dismiss the old “dry river” idea of a Nile branch to the Mediterranean. The author attributes the depressions chiefly to wind erosion acting on soft strata breached through structural weaknesses, illustrating a subtle deepening mechanism observed in coastal “bosom” basins, and then weighs engineering schemes: Wadi Rayan as a sump looks plausible, while a Qattara sea and hydropower face prohibitive topography and cost. He traces the artesian system to the Erdi–Ennedi highlands, derives static water‑level contours from wells and lakes, explains the persistence of desert lakes via underground inflow, and notes the Nile’s capture of warm artesian water near Dakka. From these contours he rejects deep coastal artesian wells, warns that well interference and external drains may lower oasis heads, and begins to test traditions about “Zerzura” against the new topographic and hydrologic evidence. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77091,908,'Reading ease score: 43.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77091,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77091,671);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77092,520,'"She who sleeps :  A romance of New York and the Nile" by Sax Rohmer is a novel written in the early 20th century. It blends New York society intrigue with Egyptian archaeology and a hint of the supernatural. The story centers on Barry Cumberland, a wealthy collector’s son haunted by a mysterious, priestess-like woman and drawn into an expedition proposed by the imposing dealer Danbazzar, whose papyrus hints at a princess preserved alive across millennia. Expect romance, occult science, and a transatlantic chase that links a modern mystery to pharaonic secrets.  The opening of the story follows Barry racing through a mountain storm, glimpsing an Egyptian-looking woman on a balcony moments before crashing his car, then awakening in a hospital with a nameless rescuer and no way to trace the site. He finds the secluded house but meets only a hostile caretaker and shuttered windows, later spotting the same woman from afar in a walled garden, again behind a veil in a passing limousine, and possibly once more at a pier. Meanwhile, Barry’s father entertains Danbazzar, who unveils a unique papyrus about Princess Zalithea, a captive allegedly placed into suspended life in Seti’s time; experts authenticate the document while debating its claims, and Danbazzar reveals he has located the unopened tomb and a related formula. John Cumberland agrees to fund an excavation up the Nile, and as plans form, Barry prepares to depart—still compelled by the elusive woman whose appearances bookend the beginning. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77092,908,'Reading ease score: 71.5 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77092,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77092,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77092,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77092,640);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77092,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77093,520,'"A silver pool by Beulah Field" is a collection of lyric poems written in the early 20th century. The book contemplates love, loss, spiritual yearning, and the artist’s vocation, using luminous natural imagery and intimate, introspective voices to explore how pain is transmuted into beauty.  The collection opens with a self-portrait of inspiration—a poised soul and a heart made a “silver pool”—then moves through scenes of marketplaces and carnivals, wanderers and lovers, sea winds and desert tents, to weigh the worth of authenticity against show and fame’s mirage. Voices speak from exile and devotion, from a courtesan longing for the desert’s purity, from a rebel marked by tropical splendor and peril, and from the wayfarer who hears only wind, stars, and dawn. Recurring motifs—fire and water, moon and dawn, glass and jewels, gardens and home—frame meditations on fate, identity, and faith: grief is burned to ash and found again as a hidden gem; love stands as watch-fire and sacrament; death is challenged by continuity in nature and song. Tender addresses to a father, to June, and to a child promise to turn scars into pearls and broken songs into a bright strand, closing the book on resilience, reverence, and hard-won peace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77093,908,'Reading ease score: 74.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77093,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77094,520,'"La Costa d''Avorio" by Emilio Salgari is an adventure novel written in the late 19th century. It centers on Alfredo Lusarno, a Sicilian hunter-planter on the Ivory Coast, and his companion Antao as they collide with African wildlife and the feared warriors of Dahomey after the kidnapping of Alfredo’s young brother. The tale promises jungle and river perils, treachery, and a personal vendetta with the Dahomey cabecero Kalani and his Amazons.  The opening of the novel finds Alfredo and Antao hunting hippopotami on the Ousme when a hidden watcher and distant gunshots hint at danger near Alfredo’s farm. After killing a charging hippo, they spot a spy, use decoy “bodies” to mislead pursuers, and hurry into the forest, where Alfredo slays a leopard to save a wounded young Amazon of Dahomey. She admits her party was sent to seize Alfredo and to attack his farm under Kalani’s orders. Racing back, they meet a servant who confirms the farm has been sacked and burned and that Alfredo’s brother Bruno has been abducted. A brief backstory reveals Kalani’s hatred and rise to power, prompting Alfredo to vow a rescue and seek aid from King Tofa. At dawn they return to the injured Amazon, who agrees to follow them, as they treat her wounds and prepare their next move. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77094,908,'Reading ease score: 42.9 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77094,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77094,645);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77095,520,'"The history and adventures of the renowned Don Quixote" by Cervantes Saavedra is a novel written in the early 17th century. It satirizes the fad for chivalric romances through the misadventures of an aging La Mancha hidalgo who remakes himself as a knight-errant, with his earthy squire Sancho Panza in tow. Comic and compassionate, it explores the tension between idealism and reality as its hero reads the world through the fantasies he adores.  The opening of the book includes a substantial biographical sketch praising the author’s courage and ingenuity through hardship, a translator’s note pledging to preserve the work’s humor and tone, and a playful preface in which a friend advises the writer to fabricate scholarly trappings. The story then begins with a frugal country gentleman who reads so many tales of knighthood that he loses his wits, refurbishes ancestral armor, fashions a pasteboard visor, names his horse Rozinante, himself Don Quixote de La Mancha, and his imagined lady Dulcinea del Toboso. He sets out unknighted, trusting he’ll be dubbed later, and promptly mistakes an inn for a castle, two prostitutes for noble ladies, and a landlord for a castellan; the scene closes with the women trying to remove his armor while his helmet is hopelessly fastened. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77095,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don_Quixote',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77095,908,'Reading ease score: 40.6 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77095,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77095,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77095,641);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77095,644);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77096,520,'"Comment s''en vont les reines" by Colette Yver is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a small northern monarchy where republican fervor rises against the crown, it follows the new delegate Samuel Wartz and his spirited wife Madeleine as courtly spectacle, parliamentary strategy, and private loyalties entwine. The narrative explores how prestige, propaganda, and personal feeling shape public life, with special attention to the quiet burdens carried by politicians’ wives. Its central tension lies in the waning power of monarchy and the calculated making of a modern republic.  The opening of the novel centers on a royal ball at Oldsburg’s city hall, where the young republican Wartz, dazzled yet wary, encounters Queen Béatrix’s charm offensive while Madeleine, radiant, draws notice—even from a royal prince. Amid the glitter, Wartz’s circle debates his signature plan for compulsory education and the tactics needed to turn it into a transformative political lever. A private scene on a deserted staircase reveals Madeleine’s secret “politics of the heart”: her long, unspoken bond with their mentor, Dr. Saltzen, which fuels Wartz’s insecurity. Soon after, the dubious fixer Bertrand Auburger approaches Wartz, then proves his worth by exposing a rival’s attempt to preempt the education law—forcing Wartz into the murky “underneath” of politics; the sequence closes with Saltzen’s poignant critique, sparked by the melancholy of their servant Hannah, that mass schooling may awaken new pains in a people not yet given the strength to bear them. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77096,908,'Reading ease score: 70.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77096,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77096,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77097,520,'"The magic ring, Vol. 1 (of 3)" by La Motte-Fouqué is a romance written in the early 19th century. It blends chivalric adventure, Christian devotion, and faintly allegorical magic around a contested talisman, following the young squire Otto von Trautwangen, his cousin Bertha, the resolute Gabrielle de Portamour, and the formidable Sir Folko de Montfaucon. Expect pilgrimages, torchlit jousts, knightly vows, and the pull between courtly love and duty in a richly medievalized setting.  The opening of the romance sets its tone with a translator’s notice and the author’s devout preface, then shifts to the Danube, where Otto and Bertha witness pilgrims and crusaders before encountering Gabrielle and her escort. In Gabrielle’s tale, a family ring passes between her and Folko through stratagems and tournaments, until she reaches Germany under the protection of Count Archimbald. A dramatic night joust ends with Folko’s victory; Otto impulsively offers to fight but is rebuffed as an unknighted youth, and Gabrielle departs in grief. Back at the castle, Otto is solemnly dubbed a knight, keeps vigil in the chapel amid eerie encounters with ancestral arms, and at dawn takes leave, despite Bertha’s heartbreak. He rides out alone, travels toward the Main, and pauses at an inn near Frankfort, where he meets a weathered German knight and an Italian merchant; the trio exchange tales, including a northern legend of enchantment and loss, as the section closes with another story about to begin. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77097,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magic_Ring',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77097,908,'Reading ease score: 55.4 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77097,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77097,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77097,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77097,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77097,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77098,520,'"The magic ring, Vol. 2 (of 3)" by La Motte-Fouqué is a romantic chivalric novel written in the early 19th century. It blends courtly adventure with Germanic and Norse enchantment, following the young knight Sir Otto von Trautwangen as honour, love, and sorcery collide around a fateful ring. Key figures include the sea-monarch Arinbiorn, Otto’s beloved Gabrielle, his gentle cousin Bertha, the stern Sir Heerdegen, the famed Sir Folko de Montfaucon and Blanchefleur, and the enigmatic sorceress Gerda. Expect trials of reputation and faith, visionary lore, and a quest that turns from French halls to northern seas.  The opening of this volume begins at a triumphal banquet where Otto, newly betrothed to Gabrielle, drinks—by mistake—the enchanted draught meant for Arinbiorn and is driven into a violent frenzy, wounding Bertha before Arinbiorn fells him. Awakening to shame and abandonment, Otto learns his honour is doubted, slips away into the forest in despair, and is found by Arinbiorn, who explains Gerda’s potion, clears his name among the principals, and proposes a redemptive campaign against pagan foes in the north; Otto, seeking to earn glory before facing Gabrielle again, agrees. After a brief interlude at Trautwangen where news of Otto’s vindication reaches his father, Otto and Arinbiorn reach the coast, find the Lady Minnatrost’s castle desolate, embark with Norsemen, and sail to Norway—stopping for a fiery sea skirmish, a confession of Arinbiorn’s vision of Blanchefleur, and Otto’s dazzling feats in northern war-games. By night, the master armourer Asmandur forges Otto’s broken sword while singing old lays and telling a grim tale of Hugur and the vulture-helmed avenger—the narrative breaking off mid-scene, with the promise of further trials and revelations. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77098,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magic_Ring',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77098,908,'Reading ease score: 59.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77098,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77098,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77098,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77098,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77099,520,'"The magic ring, Vol. 3 (of 3)" by La Motte-Fouqué is a romance novel written in the early 19th century. This volume blends chivalric adventure, Christian piety, and Eastern pageantry around a talismanic ring. It follows Bertha von Lichtenried, Sir Folko de Montfaucon, and their circle—including Gabrielle, Blanchefleur, and the emir Nurreddin—through abductions, rescues, conversions, and sea-borne quests.  At the start of the novel, Bertha is tricked by her Moorish maid Zulma into going to a coastal cross and is seized by Alhafiz despite storm, thunder, and her courageous warnings. In Carthagena, the merchant Theobaldo uses the ring to revive Folko from a tomb, charm guards and a chained tiger, and free Gabrielle and Blanchefleur to Don Hernandez’s ship, while the emir pointedly does not pursue. Brought before Nurreddin, Bertha’s presence leads him to execute her abductors, honour his pledged reward, treat her with reverence, and—after sharing a tale hinting at his own origins—take her to sea, where her calm faith counters his grand plan to assail Rome; at Ostia he and many of his men receive baptism from the pope. In a contrasting thread, Folko’s storm-tossed voyage ends at Genoa, a challenge to Theobaldo dissolves into a humiliating illusion, and the proud Count Vinciguerra departs. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77099,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magic_Ring',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77099,908,'Reading ease score: 58.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77099,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77099,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77099,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77099,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77099,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77100,520,'The handsome Brandons by Katharine Tynan is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in rural Ireland, it follows the proud but impoverished Brandon family—narrated by Hilda, the self-described “ugly duckling”—as they struggle to hold their ancestral home against the ruthless Sir Rupert De Lacy of Castle Angry. With Aline’s steadfast leadership, brother Pierce’s far-off wanderings, and the lives of siblings Esther, Hugh, Donald, and the twins, the story blends family fortunes, romance, and superstition against a vividly drawn landscape.  The opening of the novel contrasts sunny Brandon Mountain with brooding Angry Mountain and sketches the long feud between the Brandons and the De Lacys, rooted in Sir Rupert’s trick that cost the Brandons a copper seam and their prosperity. Hilda recounts their genteel poverty in the decaying house, Aline’s quiet heroism, and Pierce’s departure with the famed explorer Mr. Desmond—followed by a mysterious quarrel and silence. A reckless day at Annagassan Races leaves Hilda badly injured when a borrowed car bolts; a kind young officer helps her, and Aline pays for her care by selling a treasured diamond collet. Freda’s swift courtship and happy marriage to Jim Hazeldine turns to grief when she is widowed, returning later with her little son amid tensions with Jim’s mother. As Aline keeps a nightly lamp burning in hope of Pierce’s return, Oona whispers of the banshee’s cry, and news arrives that Sir Rupert’s grandson has come to Castle Angry, sharpening the sense of danger to Brandon and those who love it. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77100,908,'Reading ease score: 79.4 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77100,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77100,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77101,520,'"The Gaelic State in the Past & Future; or, ''The Crown of a Nation''" by Darrell Figgis is a historical-political treatise written in the early 20th century. It argues that Ireland’s statehood should be rebuilt from its own historic polity—rooted in Brehon law, landholding tuatha, and functional assemblies—rather than borrowed from imperial or colonial models. Blending analysis and prescription, it reconstructs the workings of the old Gaelic State and outlines how its principles could be modernized into a sovereign, democratic framework.  The opening of the work defines a “crowned” nation as one that expresses its spirit through its own State, then contends that Ireland once possessed such sovereignty and must rediscover it by studying its own history. Figgis traces the emergence of a centralized Gaelic polity from Tuathal and Cormac through Tara’s assemblies, the codification of law, and the layered organization of tuatha, brehons, elected kings, and public hospitallers, with land held corporately by the people. He explains how this system functioned, its social equity (including women’s legal standing), and its weaknesses—dynastic succession, disruptive provincial power, and the absence of a national army—which the Norman conquest froze before they could be resolved. He then surveys the broken state: invasion, partial Gaelicization of Norman lords, the Statutes of Kilkenny, Tudor reconquest, Hugh O’Neill’s bid to preserve the tuatha, Cromwellian dispossession, and the people’s quiet return to their lands beneath a landlord layer. The nineteenth-century “resurrection” follows: Emancipation, the Land War’s reassertion of the freeman’s right (including boycotting as a revival of communal sanction), cultural revival via the Gaelic League, and co‑operative societies as modern echoes of stateships. Finally, he turns to the future: discard English administrative molds, complete land purchase, and build a modern Irish State with a representative assembly anchored by specialized national councils (for farming, labour, law, education, defence) and a balancing senate—thus translating the old Gaelic polity into contemporary form. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77101,908,'Reading ease score: 51.0 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77101,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77101,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77101,689);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77102,520,'"War paint by Robert Winchester" is a pulp western short story written in the late 1920s. Set on the Texas-Mexico border, it blends swift frontier action with a whirlwind romance, focusing on Texas Rangers, cross-border raids, and a willful society girl drawn into their dangerous world.  The plot follows Elaine Webb, a wealthy New Yorker visiting her army-officer brother in Texas, who trades barbs—and sparks—with young Ranger Bud Yancey. After witnessing a sudden street gunfight that leaves Bud wounded, Elaine drifts closer to him, only to quarrel when he blocks her from driving into a fresh skirmish. Soon Garcia’s bandits mount a major raid; soldiers rush out, and Elaine, circling by back trails, stumbles upon Bud and Sam Earp, bloodied yet still pursuing the fleeing raiders above the Three C ranch. Lieutenant Webb and his men arrive in time to finish the fight. In the aftermath, as Bud is carried out, Elaine confesses her love, and the story closes on their hard-won understanding amid the dust and danger of the border. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77102,908,'Reading ease score: 85.2 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77102,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77102,644);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77102,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77102,654);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77103,520,'"The works of the Rev. Isaac Watts, D. D. in nine volumes (volume 1 of 9)" by Watts is a collection of sermons and theological writings written in the early 18th century. This volume combines a memoir of Isaac Watts with a pastoral dedication, a practical preface, and forty-three sermons that teach core Christian doctrines and everyday piety. It emphasizes the inward witness of faith, Christian morality, the atonement of Christ, and the right use of life and death, aiming to guide believers in clear, devotional, and useful religion.  The opening of this volume presents a contents list followed by a substantial memoir that traces Watts’s life, character, and ministry: his early brilliance and nonconformist convictions, rigorous studies, pastoral leadership in London, seasons of debilitating illness, long residence with Sir Thomas Abney, charitable spirit, lucid and fervent preaching, wide-ranging publications (from hymns to logic and The Improvement of the Mind), ecumenical friendships, and serene, confident death. A heartfelt dedication to his Berry-street congregation explains that, constrained by ill health, he offers printed sermons to serve them from his retirement. The preface sets his aim to make doctrine plain, practical, and suitable for family reading, favoring heart-changing instruction over speculative display. At the start of Sermon I (“The Inward Witness to Christianity”), he argues that believers possess an internal testimony to the truth of the gospel (1 John 5:10), urging readers to ground their faith on solid evidence before examining their personal interest in its promises. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77103,908,'Reading ease score: 56.9 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77103,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77103,647);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77104,520,'The red terror in Russia by S. P. Melʹgunov is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It examines how the Bolshevik state built and justified a machinery of repression—above all the Cheka—through hostages, mass executions, and ideological calls for “Red Terror.” Drawing on decrees, press appeals, eyewitness testimony, and case material from across Russia and Ukraine, the study argues that terror was a deliberate policy rather than a spontaneous outburst of popular rage.  The opening of the book presents a translator’s note and a brief portrait of the author as a historian-activist persecuted by the Soviet regime, then moves to an introduction in which the narrator rejects individual terrorism after a café interlocutor asks why no one kills Bolshevik leaders—arguing that such acts would only trigger mass reprisals against hostages. Chapter I details how, following early attacks on Bolshevik officials, the state institutionalized hostage-taking and retaliatory shootings, vividly depicting nights of fear in Moscow’s Butyrka prison and similar reprisals across the provinces, including women and children among the victims; even Peter Kropotkin’s protest against hostage policy is cited. Chapter II challenges the official claim that terror was “forced” by enemies, tracing the swift restoration of the death penalty, summary orders to shoot, and press exhortations to “answer blood with blood,” culminating in Petrovsky’s directive to employ mass terror and the rise of a nationwide Cheka network that eclipsed the soviets. The beginning of Chapter III defines the Cheka as an organ for destroying enemies rather than judging them, quotes Latzis’s class-based test for guilt, and disputes official statistics by pointing to underreported massacres and crackdowns on strikes and revolts from Kiev and Odessa to Astrakhan and Turkestan. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77104,908,'Reading ease score: 46.4 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77104,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77104,662);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77105,520,'"Chronicles of the house of Borgia" by Frederick Rolfe is a historical account written in the early 20th century. It reassesses the Borgia dynasty within the tumultuous world of the Italian Renaissance and papal power, challenging lurid legends and arguing from close scrutiny of sources as it traces the family’s rise from Spain to Rome, especially under Popes Calixtus III and Alexander VI.  The opening of the book sets out Rolfe’s stance: great houses rise and fall swiftly, the Borgias have been used as a canvas for exaggeration, and many chroniclers are biased, so the narrative will weigh testimony and strip away calumny. The story then begins in 1455, amid the shock of Constantinople’s fall and the influx of Greek learning into Italy, contrasting Nicholas V’s cultural flowering with Rome’s alarm at the Turkish threat. Rolfe details the conclave after Nicholas’s death: factions led by Colonna and Orsini, the near-choice of Bessarion, and the compromise election of the Spanish canonist Alonso de Borja as Calixtus III. A concise genealogy introduces the Borja roots in Valencia, explains contemporary norms about legitimacy, and sketches Alonso’s service to King Alfonso of Aragon and his diplomatic skill in ending schisms. The narrative dramatizes Calixtus’s coronation and the Orsini-led riot at the Lateran, then portrays him as austere, legally minded, and focused on a crusade rather than arts—refuting the tale that he dispersed the Vatican library and illustrating his patronage through the Lorenzo Valla episode. It closes with his firm handling of Emperor Frederick’s envoys and his public vow to wage relentless war against the Turks. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77105,908,'Reading ease score: 49.8 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77105,658);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77105,661);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77105,663);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77106,520,'"Väkevämmän tiellä : 3-näytöksinen näytelmä" by Eero Alpi is a play written in the early 20th century. The story follows Kustaa Saarenpää, a driven rural sawmill owner whose bold speculation and debts threaten his business and marriage to the sharp-tongued Katri. Local powerholder Kallio—and Kustaa’s former love Johanna—complicate matters as money, pride, and community standing collide. It’s a tense, character-led drama about ambition, debt, and betrayal on the edges of Finland’s timber economy.  The opening of the play presents Kustaa on the brink of losing his sawmill at a forced auction, hounded by creditors and scorned by his wife, until Kallio unexpectedly buys the mill and promises to let Kustaa run it back, allegedly at Johanna’s urging. Brief relief turns to unease when Kallio fails to formalize the deal; Mykkyrä, a ruined neighbor, warns that Kallio is not to be trusted, and creditor Hakala presses for repayment. In Act II Johanna secretly visits to warn Kustaa that Kallio has likely flipped the mill to city timber men for a higher profit, shattering Kustaa’s hopes and igniting Katri’s fury. Act III begins with Kustaa desolate while Mykkyrä offers grim consolation and confirms the rumor, underscoring the play’s early arc from fragile hope to betrayal. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77106,908,'Reading ease score: 49.2 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77106,642);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77107,520,'"Onnen unelma :  Romaani" by Martti Wuori is a novel written in the early 20th century. It centers on middle‑aged playwright Ensio Arola and Leeni Saares, a talented young factory worker who dreams of the stage, as their lives intersect in Helsinki’s working‑class Hermanni. The story explores artistic ambition, class tensions, religious strictness at home, and the awakening of late-blooming feeling.  The opening of the novel follows Arola to a workers’ theatre rehearsal of his play, where he meets actress Martta Hinnermo and is captivated by Leeni, who is cast in the lead. Friction flares with Leeni’s unpleasant partner Härmälä, a jealous fiancé, leading to a public quarrel that breaks their engagement and collapses the rehearsal. Arola returns home stirred by new emotion and reflects on his past: orphanhood, studies abroad, a destructive affair in Vienna, an unhappy marriage and divorce, and his life as a writer. The narrative then turns to Leeni’s cramped home: a sympathetic, dignified mother and a stern, religious stepfather opposed to her stage ambitions; Härmälä barges in with accusations about a gentleman friend, prompting Leeni to assert her independence and plan to leave home. At the start of the next day, Arola, unable to write, finds himself drawn toward Leeni’s neighborhood, and the scene breaks as a bright spring Sunday fills Kaisaniemi. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77107,908,'Reading ease score: 44.1 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77107,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77107,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77108,520,'"Occultists & mystics of all ages" by Ralph Shirley is a collection of biographical essays written in the early 20th century. It examines the lives, legends, and philosophies of notable figures associated with occultism and mysticism, weighing primary sources against later myth and religious polemic to distinguish history from fable. The volume ranges from Apollonius of Tyana and Plotinus to Michael Scot, Paracelsus, Emanuel Swedenborg, Count Cagliostro, and Anna Kingsford.  The opening of this volume lists its seven subjects and then launches into extended portraits. First comes Apollonius of Tyana, where the author sifts Philostratus and Damis against Christian polemics (Hierocles versus Eusebius), recounting emblematic episodes—reviving a Roman bride, foreknowing imperial events, and advising emperors—while stressing his Pythagorean asceticism, travels (including India), and teaching on reincarnation. Next, Plotinus is set in the Alexandrian milieu, his life (Ammonius Saccas, Rome, Porphyry’s editing) sketched before a clear outline of Neoplatonism: the One, Intellect, and Soul; matter as privation; the universe as a living, sympathetic organism; mystical union; and the perennial puzzles of evil, time, and creation. The section on Michael Scot intertwines border-ballad legend (Melrose Abbey’s “Book of Might”) with history—his Toledo translations of Arab science, colorful alchemical and hypnotic feats, service to Frederick II, medical reforms, frustrated church preferment, and death lore—and the next chapter opens by framing Paracelsus as a defiant reformer against entrenched orthodoxy. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77108,908,'Reading ease score: 46.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77108,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77108,692);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77108,691);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77109,520,'"A journey to the world under-ground" by Ludvig Holberg is a satirical travel narrative written in the mid-18th century. It follows the Norwegian student Nicholas Klim, who tumbles into a hollow-earth cosmos and lands on the planet Nazar, a society of reasoning, walking trees. Through his misadventures, the work lampoons politics, law, religion, scholarship, and social pretensions in the manner of a philosophical voyage. Readers who enjoy inventive world-building with Swift-like bite will find this a sharp, witty exploration of alternative civility.  The opening of the narrative shows Klim, newly returned to Bergen and short on means, exploring a famed mountain cave; when his rope snaps he plunges into an inner firmament, duels a griffin in midair, and lands on Nazar. Mistaken for a bizarre animal—and even for a would-be assailant of a magistrate’s “wife” (a tree)—he is seized, tried with solemn ritual, and subjected to “venae-section,” then taught the language and examined by state assessors. In Keba he observes sober customs: disputations turned into stage sport, restrained funerals, high honor for husbandmen, and confinement for metaphysical hair-splitters; sent to the capital Potu, he witnesses harsh risk for legal “projectors,” meets a mild but firm prince, and is judged quick but shallow—therefore appointed royal messenger. As he begins his service, the book sketches the empire’s orderly features: a single language, ingenious machinery, incentives for large families, strict one-office rules, no inherited nobility, and a noncoercive civic religion that forbids speculative theology and treats victory in war with silence rather than triumph. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77109,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niels_Klim%27s_Underground_Travels',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77109,908,'Reading ease score: 53.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77109,638);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77109,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77109,649);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77109,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77110,520,'"... Et l''horreur des responsabilités (suite au Culte de l''incompétence)" by Faguet is a political and legal essay written in the early 20th century. It contends that modern French institutions are consciously arranged to evade responsibility, with special emphasis on how the judiciary and public life shift blame onto laws, superiors, and the state. The work continues the author’s broader critique of civic incompetence by examining law, professions, family, and social customs through a sharp, polemical lens.  The opening of the treatise argues that the French strive to be irresponsible and first targets legal ideas and customs. It claims that, since the Revolution, judges are reduced to automatic applicators of statutes, shedding moral responsibility, unlike the old French magistrates, English judges, or Roman praetors who shaped law and felt its burdens. Beccaria’s case for strict textualism is invoked to show how fear of “the spirit of the law” also shelters judges from blame. The author defends the Ancien Régime’s sale of judicial offices (following Montesquieu and La Beaumelle against Voltaire) as a paradoxical guarantee of independence, and argues the Revolution annexed justice to the executive, making government the true judge. He then illustrates politicized judging: the Paris court’s condemnation of Cardinal Luçon, allegedly based on ministry assurances and a distorted quotation, and the 1906 Court of Cassation in the Dreyfus affair, said to have inverted a legal article to avoid a new court-martial—thus appeasing power while keeping the case unresolved. The narrative widens to show executive and parliamentary encroachment, the sway of deputies and local “governments,” and echoes of Guizot and Poincaré on the danger of politics in the courts. In sum, the beginning portrays a judiciary doubly shielded—by literalism and by obedience—leaving justice in the hands of an irresponsible authority. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77110,908,'Reading ease score: 59.2 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77110,647);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77110,694);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77110,689);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77110,652);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77111,520,'"The Mother" by Grazia Deledda is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in a remote Sardinian village, it is a stark psychological study of a young priest, Paul, his devoted mother Maria Maddalena, and Agnes, the solitary woman who awakens his forbidden desire. The story probes the clash between human love and religious duty, filtered through superstition, village poverty, and maternal anguish. Its tension is intimate and fateful, unfolding over a brief span with the inevitability of tragedy.  The opening of the novel follows a stormy night in which Maria Maddalena realizes Paul is slipping out to a woman’s house and, after failing to intervene, returns home torn between fear, faith, and a vivid, unsettling dream of the parish’s disgraced former priest. Paul, having just agreed to flee with Agnes, is shaken by the wind and his conscience, prays at the church door, then faces his mother; pressed by her quiet firmness, he swears to end the affair. Through a sleepless, tormented night he oscillates between resolve and longing, finally writing a letter to break it off; at dawn he celebrates Mass, chastens his meager flock, and has his mother deliver the note before being summoned to a dying hunter. Interwoven are memories that deepen the stakes: the mother’s recollection of their hopeful arrival in Aar and Paul’s of childhood shame at his mother’s servitude, seminary years, and an earlier encounter with a fallen woman. The section closes with domestic unease, the sacristan boy’s brisk chatter, and a pointed exchange about priestly celibacy, underscoring the moral conflict now set in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77111,908,'Reading ease score: 71.2 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77111,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77111,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77112,520,'Les préjugés nécessaires by Émile Faguet is a philosophical treatise written in the early 20th century. It examines how societies are built and held together by “necessary prejudices”—beliefs people adopt less from proof than from social need. Arguing that humans are naturally familial and only reluctantly social, it claims war both creates and sustains society, forging civic cohesion and recasting instincts. The work appears set to analyze core beliefs (such as love of life and free will) as instruments that align individuals with collective survival.  The opening of this treatise questions whether humans are innately social, comparing us with solitary, social, and gregarious animals and concluding we most resemble the gregarious. It traces a path from prolonged childrearing to family, sedentarism, domestication, and agriculture, then argues that true society arose not from the family but from war driven by population pressure, which necessitated defensive coalitions, laws, and permanent states that elevate martial virtues. Faguet then defines “necessary prejudices” and illustrates two: love of life, which society redirects from personal impulse to patriotic self-sacrifice, and free will, treated as a probable illusion yet a socially imposed creed that grounds responsibility, punishment, remorse, and conversion. The section closes by canvassing critiques of volition (Spinoza, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Ribot) while explaining why belief in freedom persists because society requires it. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77112,908,'Reading ease score: 56.3 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77112,691);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77112,693);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77113,520,'"The autobiography of Sir Henry Morton Stanley, G.C.B." by Henry M. Stanley is an autobiography written in the early 20th century. It presents Stanley’s own account of his rise from a neglected, workhouse childhood to global renown as an African explorer and public figure, with the narrative completed and arranged from his journals and letters by his wife, Dorothy. Readers should expect a frank portrait of hardship, ambition, faith, and endurance leading into the major expeditions that reshaped European knowledge of Central Africa.  The opening of this autobiography begins with a laudatory foreword and an editor’s preface explaining that Stanley left the work unfinished and that the narrative is supplemented from his diaries, letters, and lectures; it also notes the criticism he faced, his lack of personal enrichment from Africa, and his frustrations with British policy. Stanley’s own introduction declares his resolve to tell the unvarnished truth of his inner life. He then recounts his earliest memories in Denbigh, the death of his grandfather, and his removal to the St. Asaph Union Workhouse, where a brutal schoolmaster imposed constant violence. He describes the terror and discipline of that world, the death of a schoolmate, his intense turn to religion for comfort, passing recognition for drawing and study, and a brief, chilling encounter with his mother. A collective punishment over a damaged table leads him to refuse a flogging, fight back, and flee the institution with a friend. The section closes with the boys’ first days on the run—hiding in a lime-kiln, begging food from a kindly woman, and edging back toward Denbigh in fear and hope. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77113,908,'Reading ease score: 59.5 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77113,643);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77113,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77113,657);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77114,520,'"Noin suuri :  Romaani" by Edna Ferber is a novel written in the early 20th century. Set in and around Chicago’s Dutch truck-farming community, it centers on Selina Peake DeJong, a spirited young woman who becomes a rural schoolteacher and raises her son, Dirk (“Noin Suuri”). The story probes the tension between beauty and utility, and between humane values and material success, against a backdrop of immigrant farm life and urban ambition.  The opening of the novel follows Selina’s son’s teasing nickname, “Noin suuri,” then pivots to Selina’s past: her itinerant childhood with a charming gambler father, her bookish imagination, and her happy school years in Chicago. When her father is killed in a gambling hall, she is left with two diamonds and a small sum, chooses independence over returning to austere relatives, and secures a teaching post in High Prairie through family friends. She sells one diamond, outfits herself sensibly, and rides out with Klaas Pool to the Dutch farming settlement, marveling at the cabbages and fields as if they were jewels and tapestries. At the Pool farm she meets the hard-working Maartje and daughters Geertje and Jozina, learns that twelve-year-old Roelf labors instead of schooling, and encounters the chilly, spotless household with its Dutch heirlooms and strict routines. The tone mixes Selina’s romantic eye for beauty with the plain, practical world she is entering, setting up her resilience and curiosity as she begins her new life. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77114,500,'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/So_Big_(novel)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77114,908,'Reading ease score: 39.3 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77114,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77114,654);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77114,649);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77115,520,'"An ice cream laboratory guide by W. W. Fisk and H. B. Ellenberger" is a scientific laboratory manual from the early 20th century. It introduces the principles and practice of ice cream manufacture, aiming to teach consistent quality through standardized methods, controlled processing, and systematic evaluation.  The book outlines essential equipment and safety, then moves through step‑by‑step laboratory exercises that cover standardizing mixes (using Pearson’s rectangular method), testing fat by modified Babcock procedures, and managing salt–ice temperatures. It classifies products—plain/Philadelphia (vanilla, chocolate, fruit, nut, bisque), cooked/French (parfaits, custards, puddings), sherbets and ices (water and milk sherbets, punches, lacto), and mousse—providing working formulas and directions. It explains stabilizers (gelatin, powders, gum tragacanth) and their preparation; details freezing technique, measuring and improving “swell,” and proper hardening (salt‑ice and cold‑room methods); and shows how to make bricks and moulded novelties. Advanced experiments test how fat level, binders, milk solids‑not‑fat, pasteurization, emulsification, homogenization, cream aging, mix temperature, and freezing time affect texture, overrun, and flavor. Quality control includes score cards for judging, bacterial counts, and gelatin testing, with final assignments for plant visits and student‑devised receipts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77115,908,'Reading ease score: 66.8 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77115,679);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77115,678);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77115,668);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77115,671);