insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77116,520,'"Voyage scientifique à travers l''Afrique occidentale : Soudan français,…." by Auguste Chevalier is a scientific travelogue written in the early 20th century. It documents a French colonial expedition across French Sudan, Senegal, and Casamance to inventory natural resources—especially useful plants—and to guide agricultural and economic development. The account blends route-by-route field notes with ethnographic glimpses and precise botanical, agricultural, and geological observations.  The opening of the work sets the scene with a laudatory preface by Édouard Heckel, explaining how a colonial mission of young specialists was assembled to study and display West African resources, and highlighting Chevalier’s outsized botanical contribution. In his introduction, Chevalier explains the rough, field-made nature of his notes, outlines a wide itinerary through the Niger loop and beyond, and thanks administrators, officers, and local helpers; he also emphasizes the mission’s economic focus on useful plants, gums, rubber, dyes, and fibers. The narrative then begins in and around Bammako with vivid, systematic observations of terrain, sacred groves, and species (karité, various Ficus, lianes à caoutchouc), alongside descriptions of gardens and trials such as wheat cultivation. As he moves along the Niger and through villages like Langana, Kangaba, Koundian, and others, he records crops and techniques (mil, rice, chanvre d’Afrique, soap from Lophira, hydromel), notes geology and waterways, remarks on wildlife and traces of gold seeking, and repeatedly observes the devastation of settlements in the wake of recent conflicts. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77116,648);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77116,670);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77116,669);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77116,908,'Reading ease score: 71.9 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77117,520,'"The Watsons" by Jane Austen, Francis Brown, and Edith C. Hubback is a novel written in the early 19th century. It appears to be a social comedy of manners about Emma Watson, newly returned to her modest family, as she navigates provincial society, courtship, and the pressures of fortune and rank. Expect keen observation of family dynamics, flirtation, and the tension between integrity and ambition.  The opening of the novel places Emma at her first local assembly, escorted by her practical sister Elizabeth and hosted by the affluent Edwards. Warned about the vain flirt Tom Musgrave, Emma resists his attentions, wins goodwill by kindly dancing with Mrs Blake’s young son, and draws notice from the Osborne circle—especially the considerate clergyman Mr Howard and the aloof Lord Osborne. After callers and a declined offer of a ride from Musgrave, she returns home, where her ailing father praises Mr Howard’s sermon; Lord Osborne and Musgrave pay a disconcerting visit to the humble Watsons, and Osborne invites them to see his hounds. Soon Emma’s brother Robert and showy sister-in-law Jane arrive with sister Margaret, whose hopes of Musgrave sour when he charms the family over cards, promises to dine, and fails to appear—leaving quarrels, class contrasts, and romantic uncertainties set in motion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77117,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77117,639);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77117,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77117,908,'Reading ease score: 67.9 (8th & 9th grade). Neither easy nor difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77118,520,'"La figlia di Jefte :  commedia in un atto by Felice Cavallotti" is a one-act theatrical comedy-drama written in the late 19th century. The play explores marriage, fidelity, jealousy, and the power a seemingly innocent young wife wields to reclaim and reshape her husband’s heart.  Count Mario Alberi has married the candid Emma after a dissolute bachelor life and an ongoing affair with the alluring Baroness Arsenia di Villalba. On their wedding night Emma, invoking the biblical tale of Jephthah’s daughter, begs for two months’ reprieve before consummation, which Mario grants. Beneath her girlish airs, Emma proves sharp and strategic: she charms, teases, and gently reforms Mario, while inviting Arsenia to visit in order to confront her on moral ground. In a brilliant salon duel, Emma—now poised and elegant—extols an ideal of total trust and exclusive love, exposes the baseness of adulterous betrayals, and triumphs, sending Arsenia away in defeat. With the rival gone and Mario fully enthralled, Emma quotes the Jephthah story as the deadline expires, crowns herself with a “garland of sacrifice,” and embraces her husband, sealing a victory that unites passion with principled devotion. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) value s(77118,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77118,639);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77118,908,'Reading ease score: 50.6 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77119,520,'"Sally Cocksure :  A school story" by Ierne L. Plunket is a girls'' school novel written in the early 20th century. It follows the brilliant but brash Sally Brendan, whose quick wit, appetite for risk, and cocksure temper collide with the rules and hierarchies of a seaside boarding school. Expect pranks, sports, and discipline to clash as Sally tests boundaries, tangles with rivals, and is magnetized by an older girl’s charm, all while learning what it takes to belong.  The opening of the novel shows Sally’s mischief at home—tying a goat to the vicar’s lecture with a taunting card and literally sewing her governess to the carpet—pushing her mother to send her to Seascape House. On the journey she antagonizes older girls, then brazenly crosses between moving carriages in a tunnel to claim a seat, setting her reputation as daring and insufferably sure of herself. At school she tops her form under Miss Castle, earns the nickname “Miss Cocksure,” and goes from being sidelined by juniors to impressing the games staff and securing a spot in the cricket Eagles—only for a measles quarantine to cancel matches and sour tempers. A beach scuffle and talk of forbidden caves lead her into the orbit of “Peter” (Trina Morrison), an idle, captivating older girl who lures Sally out of bounds for chocolates and a clandestine visit to cousins, then back over the wall to bluff a lenient punishment—after which Sally secretly writes both their lines, only to be publicly belittled by Peter as tensions flare. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77119,645);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77119,636);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77119,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77119,908,'Reading ease score: 75.7 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77120,520,'"The silver net :  Poems by Louis Vintras" is a poetry collection written in the early 20th century. Through symbolist, allegorical, and dramatic-lyric pieces, it meditates on love and desire, faith and guilt, illusion and fame, and the uneasy traffic between the sacred and the profane.  Across visions, fables, and monologues, the book moves from spectral ships bearing souls and a libertine haunted in a violet wood, to lovers kindled at sea and a mystic garden where lily and rose unveil the Virgin and the Christ. It sketches the city of anguished fame, the penitent Magdalene, and Ishtar’s destructive glamour; exposes hollow marriages and idols who envy mortal feeling; and sets intimate dramas—such as two cousins confronting a rake’s duplicity—against larger reckonings, as in the memory of a king who murdered for love and still meets his victim’s eye. The culmination, a traversal of the Palace of Desires, discovers Fame and Fortune enthroned above a floor of the dead, recasting pleasure and success as ruin. Closing with eruptions of damned spirits and a brief envoi, the sequence blends rich, sensuous imagery—sea, roses, jewels, lamps, and city lights—with moral inquiry to trace the cost of longing and the hunger for redemption. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77120,637);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77120,908,'Reading ease score: 76.1 (7th grade). Fairly easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77121,520,'"Amore nell''arte" by Iginio Ugo Tarchetti is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The book explores the tensions between love, beauty, art, and death through intense psychological portraits, most notably the tragic musician Lorenzo Alviati and the ailing Adalgisa. Mixing lyrical nature scenes, aesthetic reflection, and confessional letters, it probes idealized love versus physical desire and the perils of obsession. Readers should expect brooding, philosophical fiction steeped in romantic pessimism.  The opening of the collection follows a narrator who recalls his gifted friend Lorenzo, an artist who dismisses sensual love while craving an unattainable ideal. After a disenchanted affair with a worldly widow, Lorenzo returns home, spurns Adalgisa’s devotion, then—through a long letter—confesses a belated, spiritualized love that blossoms at her deathbed, sanctifying his creed of pure, disembodied affection. News later reveals his descent into new obsessions—first with the Venus de’ Medici, then with his own image—ending in madness and death in an asylum. The text finally pivots toward the next tale, briefly invoking imagination and unseen influences through a magistrate’s cool skepticism about spirits. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77121,634);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77121,908,'Reading ease score: 29.9 (College graduate level). Very difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77122,520,'"Maisteri Pöllökorpi :  Multa-aatelia III : 3-näytöksinen huvinäytelmä" by Halme is a three-act comedic play written in the early 20th century. Set on the Pöllönkorpi farm, it satirizes Finland’s “soil aristocracy” through romantic mix-ups, social climbing, and rustic pretensions. The key players include the swaggering Esa Pöllönkorpi, his inept academic brother who now owns the estate, the volatile Saara and her wavering fiancé Kalle, the fortune-hunting Freckstedt, the quick-witted maid Maiju, and the wealthy heiress Maiju Taivaloja.  The opening of the play shows a Sunday on the estate turning chaotic when the maid Maiju tricks Kalle into a compromising moment, provoking Saara’s jealous fury. Esa schemes to force a match between Kalle and Saara for his own advantage, while the “maisteri” bungles farm management (even killing a stable horse) and faces a pressing timber-company debt. A mix-up over the two Maijus spurs Freckstedt to boast of an instant engagement to the wrong woman, and Kalle’s sending the maid to the station upsets the household’s travel plans. When Esa attempts a grand reconciliation speech, Saara mistakes it for a love confession and embraces him just as others walk in, leading the heiress to spurn Esa; the early scenes end with frayed finances, bruised pride, and a tentative softening between Saara and Kalle. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77122,642);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77122,641);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77122,908,'Reading ease score: 50.8 (10th to 12th grade). Somewhat difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77123,520,'"Geschichten aus Steiermark" by Peter Rosegger is a collection of short stories written in the late 19th century. The tales portray Styrian mountain and village life with a blend of realism, folklore, and quiet religiosity, following woodcutters, children, peasants, and gentlefolk as they contend with nature’s might and social upheaval. The tone is lyrical yet unsparing, dwelling on love, loss, and resilience in an austere Alpine world.  The opening of the collection presents three distinct scenes. In Das Felsenbildnis, an isolated family living beneath a rock formation resembling the Madonna is undone by a spring avalanche: an airblast pitches their hut intact across the torrent, the infant survives, the mother dies, and the devoted, simple-minded uncle who tried to shore up the slope is found later in the debris; the widower retreats to the forest with his child. In Föhn, a boy’s arduous journey to first communion during thaw and storm turns perilous on the way home when floods and falling timber trap him; he falls asleep on a wind-tossed fallen tree over a raging brook and is saved by a woodcutter as his mother searches, the family crediting his rescue to the grace of the sacrament. In Franzosenrummel, an aristocratic household flees approaching French troops to a high farm, where culture clash and comedy unfold amid vivid farm life; a young countess bonds with the farmer’s daughter over candid talk of courtship while news arrives that the French are already near. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77123,634);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77123,651);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77123,908,'Reading ease score: 81.7 (6th grade). Easy to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77124,520,'"Here foloweth a lytell treatyse of the beaute of women newly translated out of…" is an anonymous didactic poem in verse from the early 16th century (Tudor era). It offers a brief English rendering of a French original that defines ideals of feminine beauty and conduct. The likely topic is a catalog of desirable physical traits and modest behaviors, culminating in the moral that beauty means little without virtue.  The poem opens with a pious invocation and a translator’s preface, then points to legendary romances (Troilus and Criseyde, Paris and Helen, Tristan and Isolde) to show beauty’s power. It proceeds to prescribe qualities of bearing and demeanor: simplicity of manner, a gentle and modest gaze, and measured, courteous speech; low, pleasant laughter; and an overall lowly, humble disposition. It enumerates “high” and “low” points of beauty—favoring a fair high forehead, well-held head, and rounded bosom; and, among the “low,” discreet laughter, modest regard, and even a soft sneeze—while warning against pride, harsh looks, and heaviness of carriage. A physiognomic catalog follows: light hollow feet, firm loins, slender small hands, a dimpled chin, smiling cheeks, ample spacing between eyes, shoulders, and loins, and sanguine lips and nails with ruddy cheeks. The work ends with a refrain that beauty without goodness is worth nothing, urging maid, wife, and widow alike to join virtue to their outward grace. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77124,637);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77124,653);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77124,908,'Reading ease score: 34.0 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77125,520,'"Monthly supplement of the penny magazine of the Society for the Diffusion of…" is a popular-education periodical issue compiled in the early 19th century. It is a miscellany of short articles and reviews that promote useful knowledge across science, technology, education, geography, architecture, medicine, and public affairs. The likely topic is the diffusion of practical and scientific information to a general readership.  The issue surveys a statue of James Watt and the public tributes that celebrate his contributions to the steam engine; offers a vivid sketch of the harsh landscape and industrious culture of the Feroe Islands; and reviews Samuel Wilderspin’s infant school system, stressing moral training and early intellectual habits. It presents Sir David Brewster’s “Natural Magic,” explaining optical and acoustic illusions, automata, and striking demonstrations, alongside remarks on how such curiosities feed real mechanical progress. It describes new buildings for a major hospital’s Hall and the Mathematical and Grammar Schools, reviews a three‑volume “British India” that covers history, society, natural history, climate, medicine, astronomy, navigation, and the prospect of steam communication, and introduces Dr. Neil Arnott’s hydrostatic bed for invalids, with a compelling case study and practical guidance. The number closes with a notice announcing a forthcoming Penny Cyclopaedia and warning against a spurious issue. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
insert into mn_books_bookshelves (fk_books,fk_bookshelves) values (77125,699);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77125,908,'Reading ease score: 45.5 (College-level). Difficult to read.',0);
insert into attributes (fk_books,fk_attriblist,text,nonfiling) values (77126,520,'"Lord Lister No. 0034: De kamerheer van den Koning van Servië" by Kurt Matull et al. is a pulp crime novella written in the early 20th century. It follows gentleman-thief John Raffles (the “Great Unknown”) and his loyal aide Charly Brand as they operate under disguises, baiting vain elites and outwitting detectives. Disguised as a Serbian chamberlain, Raffles targets a status-hungry biscuit magnate while dodging an American sleuth and a ruthless adventuress.  The opening of the story shows Raffles low on funds at his country hideaway, deciding on a swift scheme: he poses as “Graf von Leutomischel,” buys fake orders, and lures the gullible Mr. Piek into paying handsomely for decorations at a London hotel. He coolly neutralizes the scheming Betsy and humiliates Miss Ethel Prince, then moves to Ostend, where he continues the chamberlain masquerade and basks in Piek’s fawning attention. In the hotel, Betsy resurfaces as a maid with crooked staff, tries to ambush Raffles in his room, is exposed, and flees before police can seize her. She then enlists two hardened fugitives through Madame La Fleur to strike back, but their midnight assault collapses into infighting, ending in a fatal stabbing in the garden while Raffles sleeps on, unaware. (This is an automatically generated summary.)',0);
